Great Things Happen When We Move Shell celebrates the inspiring stories of powerful women who found new paths to make their future. #MoveWithShell Meeting Customer Needs During The Pandemic As COVID-19 continues to impact communities across India, we want to assure you that we are taking all appropriate precautions to keep you, our customers, and our site staff safe. Transforming to a net-zero emissions energy system How could India decarbonize its energy system by 2050 while continuing to make strong progress on economic development? Shell Energy India The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. Shell Helix HX8 0W-20: The Ultimate Armor for Your Engine! Shell Lubricants is proud to launch an all-new fully synthetic motor oil – Shell Helix HX8 0W-20. Redesigned for modern turbocharged engines, Shell Helix HX8 0W-20 works hard to offer a high level of protection and cleansing for modern petrol engines. It helps to reduce engine friction to provide enhanced fuel economy. Introducing Vehicle Sanitization Service at Shell Make your vehicle your fortress of safety. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Fuel Pricing in India All you want to know about the updated fuel pricing followed by Shell in India Shell Fleet Prepaid Simplify your expense management and monitor your fleetʼs expenditures with one swipe of the card. Business Opportunity - Shell Retailership If you’re a natural leader with a passion for customer service, Shell can offer you exciting and rewarding opportunities to operate a network of Retail Outlets. Hazira Port Pvt Ltd The first all-weather LNG led multi-cargo port in India. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Shell India announces Bollywood actor Shahid Kapoor as the brand ambassador for its Lubricants business National: Shell India has onboarded Bollywood versatile actor Shahid Kapoor as the brand ambassador for its Lubricants business in India. Shell is looking to expand its customer base and will bank on Kapoor’s pan-India popularity and youthful energy across all age groups. India to be key destination for energy transition gear in 5 years, says Shell's Huibert Vigeveno Huibert Vigeveno, Downstream and Renewables Director explains Shell’s Powering Progress strategy and how India will become an important destination for sourcing energy transition equipments in future. Shell’s Pratibha Priyadarshini on why diversity and inclusion in the energy sector is crucial for energy transition Pratibha Priyadarshini VP and Head of HR, discusses about how diversity and inclusion will be instrumental for a successful energy transition. In conversation with Nakul Raheja, Country Head, Shell Energy India Watch this insightful interview with Nakul Raheja, Country Head of Shell Energy India, to learn more about India's energy landscape, the challenges, opportunities and solutions for the way forward, and Shell's vision for a sustainable future. Energy and innovation Explore our Lubricants Services Covid 19: Shell India’s ResponseAs we continue our fight against COVID-19, find out what we are doing to help customers, colleagues and local communities during these challenging times. The past few months have been challenging for everyone given the sheer intensity of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic across India. The pandemic continues to cause a seismic shift in our lives, affecting our loved ones, the businesses we work with and the way we live our lives. And even as the nation expands the vaccination drive, many states have gone back into lockdown to break the chain of transmission. Playing our part, Shell India has stepped up its efforts to prioritise the health and safety of our colleagues, customers and the communities we operate in, and the continued safe operations of our businesses. These are truly unprecedented times that demand us all to steer through unique challenges every day. We are all in this together and together, we shall overcome this challenge! For our colleagues The safety and well-being of our employees, contractors and service champions at our retail stations is our top priority. For all staff Mandatory three-day downtime in the month of May, for all staff, in order to take a wellness break to help them take additional time required to meet family needs because of the sudden spread of pandemic. Extended company-sponsored stay during the lockdown and extended relocation benefits for all new recruits. Augmented telemedicine, testing, ambulance support and hospitalisation coverage available to all our employees and immediate family across India. 70 oxygen concentrators deployed across major Shell cities for employees & their family to leverage in case of ‘home treatment’ for Covid-19. Voluntary hospitalisation insurance programme for parent/parents in law, for all Shell staff. Covid-19 vaccination cost to be covered for all staff and their immediate families. Vaccination camps have been rolled out for all staff and their families too at key Shell locations. Regular sessions to address concerns regarding social, mental and physical health for employees and their family members through the Employee Assistance Programme. Mandatory work from home for all staff other than site-based staff in critical operations until July 31, 2021. Business travel within and outside of India stopped. For site-based staff and contractors in critical operations Sanitisation of office areas and deep cleaning where required. Indoor air quality checks conducted regularly. Utmost safety standards adhered to including social distancing during operations, wearing of masks, using sanitiser at regular intervals and proper disposal of used personal protective equipment. Thermal screening or temperature checking at entry points. Disinfection of transport vehicles after every use. At Shell retail stations: Stringent personal hygiene standards mandated for site staff including regular cleaning of hands with soap or sanitiser. Safe distance maintained by staff during fueling, oil checks and changes, and in-shop transactions. Sanitisation of Deli2go counters and all high touch areas at regular intervals Staff members handling food continue to wear caps, gloves and masks as part of food handling procedures. Any staff member feeling unwell is advised to stay off work and consult a doctor immediately. Vaccination drives organized for our frontline workers and their eligible family members at our fuel stations across the network. This included our site construction workers as well. For our customers Shell India stays committed to ensuring minimal disruptions to our business and service delivery to our customers and partners. Our retail stations and operation sites continue to remain open. We have robust business continuity plans in place to ensure the safety and sustainability of our business operations. Regular connect with customers to share the latest developments on our operations, credit support, equipment re-start care and maintenance guidance. Social distancing while at Shell fuel stations – greeted with the traditional Namaskar, maintaining safe distance during fueling, contactless payment encouraged including Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and Near-Field Communication (NFC). Availability of hand sanitisers for customers at multiple touchpoints. Introduction of daily essentials (bread, milk, flour, etc.) and safety essentials (masks, sanitisers, etc.) at all Shell Select outlets (currently available in some cities) to help our customers make as few trips outside their homes for essentials as possible and to ensure they remain safe on-the-go. Partnership with task app Dunzo and delivery apps like Zomato and Amazon Food for non-fuel retail products to ensure our customers have access to essentials without having to step out of their houses. For our field staff Support provided to 730+ distributor staff across India through preventive and protective measures: Tie up with our insurance partner Marsh and Go digit general insurance limited to fund Corona Kavach policy up to INR 1.5 lacs and a death benefit cover of INR 7 lacs. All field staff are encouraged to take vaccination on priority through proactive engagements and by offering reimbursements for cost of vaccination from private hospitals. Our Community efforts Shell salutes the frontliners who have been working tirelessly to #FlattenTheCurve and contain the spread of COVID-19. We are supporting villages and areas near our sites with COVID-19 care kits. We have supported more than 126,000 people with more than 35,000 relief kits and 14,800 meals. Shell staff have distributed 16,000 grocery kits to vulnerable communities and daily wage workers around Shell fuel stations, along with local authorities, in more than 15 cities. We have offered complimentary beverages to 2,600 members of the healthcare community across 62 sites to show our appreciation. View the Healthcare Heroes section. 3,000 hygiene kits distributed to Uber Medic/Essential drivers who are providing services to the community. For some of our on-the-ground initiatives by retail, please view the Care for Community section. Through Vision Spring and our distributor partners, we have distributed care packages with food and hygiene essentials to 12,000 truckers and allied transport staff stranded at the borders and mechanics whose income has been impacted across 22 cities. Shell India appreciates the efforts of truck drivers and health-care professionals across the country for ensuring the supply of essential services. View our Thank you message. Provided 1,600 vulnerable families in villages around Shell Technology Centre, Bangalore with grocery and hygiene items that will support them for at least two weeks. Provided 800 vulnerable families around the Taloja facility with grocery and hygiene items that will support them for a week. Provided 2,575 vulnerable families (Halpati fishermen and Below Poverty Line families) in villages around our Hazira facility with grocery kits. We have provided essential groceries to community kitchens in two locations of Surat city to migrant workers and poor families for their survival and well-being. Nearly 1,300 patients, majority of whom are from economically weaker sections of society, have benefited from free health care at the Hazira community healthcare centre, sponsored and supported by Shell. 70 oxygen concentrators were distributed across state-led health centers through city municipal corporations and local panchayat in Bengaluru, Chennai and Tirupur to help address the oxygen requirement. The Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Oxygen generation plant with 250 LPM capacity installed at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Olapad, Surat. This is in response to a request from Surat district administration to augment oxygen supplies for rural communities to fight COVID-19. We will continue to provide regular updates here on our efforts. Updated: July 13, 2021 COVID 19: Message from Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell companies in IndiaThese are extraordinary times and every contribution counts! #ShellCares Apr 14, 2020 13:47 COVID-19: We all need to contribute Collaboration, community engagement and being a valued contributor to society has always been our ethos as a company. COVID-19 does not and will not change this and it is important to us at Shell India to do our part. Our primary role is to ensure a reliable energy supply to essential services such as healthcare, food distribution and sanitation that depend on it. Along with keeping our employees, contractors and customers safe, we are safeguarding access to critical products and ensuring that community agencies have the resources they need during this crisis. But together we also need to support the numerous healthcare professionals, such as nurses and doctors, who are working tirelessly on the front lines of this pandemic. In close to 15,000 Shell gas stations across more than 30 countries, including sites across India, we’re providing complimentary beverages to them. You can read more about this here. It’s our way to thank and honour healthcare workers who are truly some of the unsung heroes in this crisis. Our convenience retail stores have also ramped-up their product range to provide essentials that are needed by the communities during this crisis. As the impact of COVID-19 grows, so does the demand for social services. We are especially mindful of those experiencing hardship during this time, and are responding where we can to the evolving needs of the communities where we live and work. We are leveraging our retail sites, distributors and partners to provide relief kits containing essentials like rice, pulses, oil, soap etc. to the vulnerable sections of the society and daily wage workers around our operations in Hazira, Shell Technology Centre Bangalore and gas stations. We are also reaching out with care packages to our extended community of truckers and allied transport staff who are currently facing a lot of hardship, as they do not have access to food and hygiene essentials since they are stranded on highways or city outskirts without any support. You can read more about this here. We’re proud that so many Shell India employees have contributed to the community in whatever way they are able to either directly or through donations. I thank my Shell India team who continue to go above and beyond to keep our operations running to meet the needs of all citizens who depend on our products and services every day, while at the same time putting in considerable effort to respond to the needs of their families and communities. We are all in this together and I’m proud of how we’re working to support each other during this difficult time. Nitin Prasad Chairman, Shell companies in India MotoristsGet the most out of driving – be inspired, discover, and learn how to get the best performance from your vehicle with Shell. Shell Car Care Range: Take care of your car After having redefined quality fuels in India, Shell now brings to you an exclusive range of car care products that caters to all exterior and interior care needs of your vehicle. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Offers and competitions Check out all the exclusive money-saving promotions and great prizes you can win at your local Shell Station. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Great Things Happen When We MoveShell celebrates the inspiring stories of powerful women who found new paths to make their future.We bring to you real-life stories of three women that truly capture the essence of our campaign Great Things Happen When We Move, with mobility being at the heart of it. Through this campaign, Shell encourages one and all, to move forward and chase their dreams. #MoveWithShell "Through our latest campaign, ‘Great Things Happen When We Move,’ we celebrate the dreamers of India who seek to achieve bigger things despite life’s challenges. We bring alive this narrative through real-life stories of three powerful women, whose inspiring journeys light up the path for forward movement in tandem with our philosophy to #MoveWithShell to #MakeTheFuture." Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Shell Energy India The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Shell Service StationsFrom quality fuels to the most mouth-watering bites, Shell service stations have everything you need to get back on the road, however far the journey. Progress with Pride Embracing diversity and inclusion is part of our DNA at Shell. Introducing Vehicle Sanitization Service at Shell Make your vehicle your fortress of safety. COVID-19 Updates Read our latest update on how Shell fuel stations are responding to COVID-19 Yummy Snacks & Delicious Beverages Now enjoy a wide variety of your favorite snacks & beverages only at Shell Select Shell Helix Oil Change + With our dedicated Shell Helix Oil Change + (4-Wheeler Lube Bay) you can enjoy timely and efficient oil changes for your vehicle So you've filled your car's tank. Now what about you? Enjoy a cup of our freshly brewed coffee. Visit our outlets at Vittal Mallya Road and Mysore Road in Bangalore. Waitrose Give your taste buds a treat. Whether it’s a dinner emergency or your weekly shop, our selection of great quality Waitrose food will silence even the toughest family meal judges. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus technology Motor Oil Reimagined. The first synthetic motor oil designed from natural gas that gives you long lasting engine performance. Introducing Vehicle Sanitization Service at ShellMake your vehicle your fortress of safety. Shell is happy to announce the launch of Vehicle Sanitization Service. This service is available to our retail customers in partnership with ‘Bactakleen,’ one of the world’s leading car interior sanitization service provider. Now, get the best in class protection for your vehicle in just under 15 minutes2! Benefits of Vehicle Sanitization Service It kills 99%3 of germs and also viruses inside your vehicle Sanitizes every inch of your vehicle’s interiors in under 15 minutes2 Eliminates bad odor Non-toxic4 Cleans air conditioning ducts and vents Clinically tested and certified by leading laboratories across the world Make the right choice for yourself and your family and experience the service by visiting your nearest* Shell fuel station today! *Available at select Shell fuel stations. Please see the list below to find the one nearest to you. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. SHELL HELIX OIL CHANGE+ (4 Wheeler Lube Bay)With our dedicated Shell Helix 4-wheeler Lube bays you can enjoy timely and free oil change service for your vehicle. Shell brings to you an exclusive facility for oil changes for your cars and bikes at select Shell retail outlets, with the Shell Helix Oil Change + Lube Bay. We offer: An easy reference tool to choose the right engine oil for your vehicle A professionally trained specialist to conduct the oil change A wide range of lubricants developed in partnership with manufacturers like Scuderria Ferrari and Ducati Visit your nearest Shell retail outlet to get your oil change done. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Select Convenience StoresQuick shopping anytime - Select are Shell's very own convenience stores, across all Shell Fuels Stations. Offering a variety of snacks and beverages along with other convenient items, all selected for their high quality to ensure that you get the best available. Featuring clean, well-lit stores, with easy-to reach shelves, fresh products and quick checkout. Shell Select stores are conveniently located with easy access for a pleasant and hassle-free customer experience. Shell Select is the convenient stop to refresh and move-on! Our Response to COVID-19 at Shell Fuel Stations Jul 16, 2021 Read our latest update on how Shell fuel stations are responding to COVID-19 As our country faces an unprecedented rise in the number of COVID-19 cases again, we want to assure you that Shell stations across our network continue to operate safely and reliably as per directives from government/local authorities, providing our customers with essential fuel and supplies. The safety and wellbeing of our customers and site staff is of paramount importance to us and we have taken appropriate measures in this direction to ensure Shell fuel stations remain clean and as safe as possible for everyone. All developments around COVID-19 are being closely monitored and we will continue to adapt accordingly to protect our customers and our site staff. In the meantime, let's help each other get through these uncertain times as best we can. Thank you for your help and understanding, and please stay safe. What you can expect at our service stations: Hygiene Our staff at our fuel pumps are cleaning sites more intensively and regularly, particularly areas of high public contact such as counters, fuel pumps and door handles. Wearing a mask inside a Shell station is mandatory. Our site staff have been adequately trained on the importance of social distancing. We follow government guidance on cleaning of hands regularly with soap or sanitizer. The toilets at our sites are open for staff and customers’ use. We have employed multiple crowd and queue management techniques at our stations. Payment When you pay, we recommend using card or contactless payments in the store, rather than cash. We have facilities like UPI and NFC enabled at our fuel stations. If you do go into the store, please make sure you always stay at least 1m away from other customers and wear a mask above your nose and mouth at all times. Offers and Supplies We’re working closely with our suppliers to keep our fuel stations well stocked. All our deli2go counters are being sanitized at regular intervals. All the staff handling food will continue to wear gloves, caps and masks as part of our food handling procedures. We have extended our range of products to include daily essentials like bread, eggs, milk, etc. at select stations and safety essentials range like disinfectant wipes, masks, sanitizers, etc. to help you minimize your trips outside of your homes and fulfill all your needs at one place, while ensuring you remain safe on-the-go. We have partnered with Dunzo, Zomato and Amazon Food at select stations to ensure that you have ready access to all your favorites from Shell Select and deli2go right from the comfort of your home. Vaccination Drives for Frontline Staff As the world grapples with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the development of various vaccines has renewed hopes of a normal tomorrow. Getting vaccinated is the best line of defense we have against the invisible enemy. In line with our philosophy of safety and care, and our continued commitment towards our people and the communities we are a part of, the Shell India Mobility team had organized COVID-19 vaccination drives for our frontline staff and their eligible family members at our fuel stations across the network. Another major part of our workforce - the construction crews that help build the beautiful sites we see across our network cities – were also inoculated through these vaccination drives. This was done in collaboration with local hospitals and government officials, and our on ground team were able to inoculate all of our eligible* staff across our retailer operated fuel stations with the first jab. A lot of effort and care was taken to make the staff feel comfortable about taking the vaccine - from addressing concerns and explaining the side effects of the vaccine to organizing vaccination camps, our network of retailers along with their respective territory managers and the wider Mobility teams have taken a step in the right direction. This will certainly go a long way in helping break the chain of transmission and make our stations safer than ever. (*staff who were fit to receive the vaccine as per the MoHFW norms and accounting for churn.) COVID-19 has affected our daily lives but it has been more challenging for some than the others. As an essential services provider, we have seen the impact on the ground and have tried to reach out to the communities we serve. We have provided the ones in need with essentials, with the help of local governing bodies and organizations. In most places, our care packages included basic food items that would help feed a family of four for almost 5 days. In some areas, we distributed basic hygiene products (soaps and sanitizers), and for migrants, we organized freshly prepared meals and face masks. The on-ground activities were driven by our retailers, dealers and their teams who have made a difference to the local communities over the past few weeks. Detailed state-wise account our initiatives are captured below. Please note: All necessary safety norms including social distancing were followed while carrying out the activities in order to ensure personal well-being of one and all. Our retailers in Bangalore, Mysore and Hubli-Dharwad have been engaged in procuring, packaging and distribution of relief kits to the people most affected by COVID-19. So far, more than 4500 kits have been distributed in these 3 cities. In Bangalore, our retailers in association with Shell Fleet Solutions team, have been distributing personal care kits consisting of sanitizers, disinfectants and Vitamin-C boosters to Uber Medic drivers, to help them ‘go well’ even in these difficult times. One of our retailers from Bangalore, Mr. Lohith decided to dedicate his birthday to a special cause. He joined hands with a local NGO and donated groceries that can feed up to 50 families. Each bag of grocery contained rice, pulses, wheat flour and oil. Our retail team from Bull Temple Road and Sankey Road stations decided to spend their after-duty hours at the ISKCON temple packing around 30,000 grocery kits. These kits are handed over every day to those who are badly impacted by the outbreak. Our team gladly volunteered to help in packing these kits as ISKCON was facing trouble due to shortage of manpower. Mr. Sovit Khemka and his team of brave hearts wanted to do a little something for the people in their trade area and approached the DCP of Whitefield for permission to distribute food packets. With the help of the local police authorities, they were able to distribute food parcels to around 500 families and further hand-over around 600 parcels to the local police station for distribution in the future as and when they deemed fit. Our retailers in Pune, Nashik, Vizag and Hyderabad, along with their teams, safely packed and distributed essential food items like wheat flour, rice and pulses to those who have been most affected by the lockdown. Through this activity, they were able to support the daily needs of over 500 families. Our frontline team from Pimpri, Pune participated in a blood donation drive when the turn out to such drives is expected to be low on account of the lockdown. Our retailers in Nashik interacted with around 100 children in Adharteerth Ashram. These children are from agricultural families that have lost their livelihoods due to various adversities surrounding Covid. Our retailers taught the importance of hygiene through demonstrations and provided the children with food packets and sweets. The frontline teams in Pune also distributed masks and sanitizers to PCMC ward office which caters to 14 healthcare wards. Our sites in Vadodara have formed a unique partnership with the local police. They are assisting our men in uniforms in taking care of their vehicles by offering periodic checks of the health of their vehicles. Our retailers and their teams in Surat thanked the essential services personnel by offering them tea and snacks for their hard work during these challenging times. In an effort to make the community a safe zone, our service champions from Aslali and Vastral have started an initiative called “CARE KARO NA” wherein they have taken the responsibility of educating the staff, vendors, local shop owners, and other community members about the virus and ways to prevent it, like regular washing of hands, sanitization of frequently touched surfaces, regular temperature checks, use of protective gear like masks, etc. They have also been distributing essential protective items like masks and soaps to members of the community. Our retailer Balraj Murugan, noticed that the police department in his area was facing a challenge in procuring face masks and hand sanitizers. Murugan recognized the challenge and procured additional masks and sanitizers. Through his efforts, he and his team were able to distribute 350 sanitizers and 1600 face masks, all of which were self-sourced. To help the senior citizens in their society, our service champions from Avadi Poonamalle decided to help them with their daily essentials and groceries. Our service champions played the part of responsible neighbours perfectly and left the groceries at the security desk along with a bottle of sanitizer to prevent the risk of infection. Our dealer partners have also been lending their support and supporting their local communities. Our dealers from Assam and Meghalaya have been engaged in distributing ration kits to entire villages and have been able to support more than 1700 families till date. They have also been spreading awareness about importance of personal hygiene and social distancing. Their acts of kindness have garnered coverage in the regional media. One of our dealer partners from Vadodara distributed over 700 packets of home-cooked meals to migrants stranded in camps on the outskirts of the city over multiple days. He also supported the migrant population by distributing over 1000 packets of personal hygiene products including toothbrushes, toothpaste, soaps, etc. to promote personal hygiene. Our dealer partner from Kornahalli fuel station in Karnataka distributed over 200 masks to customers visiting the fuel station when he realized that there was a shortage in the area. Through this activity, he was able to spread awareness about COVID-19 and limit the risk of exposure for both the customers and his team of service champions. Our dealer partner from Dahod has been engaged in distributing fresh home cooked meals twice a day (lunch and dinner) to over 750 migrants in a camp near the city. The team of service champions and our dealer partner also supported the migrant workers in the town of Nasik in Maharashtra who were trying to return to their native states due to loss of livelihood under the current circumstances. The Healthcare Heroes Campaign is how we showed our appreciation for the healthcare community for their selfless service in these extraordinary times. Through this campaign we thanked the numerous frontline workers in the healthcare sector (doctors, nurses, ward boys, paramedics etc.) who are at work every day and giving their all to help India win the COVID-19 battle. As part of this campaign, anyone working in the healthcare industry who visited our fuel station during the campaign period was entitled to a complimentary beverage. They only needed to display their valid organization identity card at the site to avail the complimentary product. This campaign made it possible for us to present a small token of thanks to around 2600 members of the healthcare community across 62 of our fuel stations. Progress with Pride Embracing diversity and inclusion is part of our DNA at Shell. On the occasion of Pride Month, we conducted a pride march and a sensitization webinar for all our channel partners across the network to spread awareness about the community, encourage them to recruit more from gender diverse backgrounds and highlight the importance of inclusion. We are immensely proud of our first successful Transgender Recruitment Drive in Vadodara as an effort to empower the LQBTQ+ community. In the direction to combat the long-standing issue of access to essential hygiene facilities for the transgender community, we are introducing inclusive washrooms with appropriate signages and amenities. We are proud of our diverse workforce, and continue to stay dedicated towards boosting equal opportunity, including those of sexual orientation or gender identity. Our purpose is to create a safe and inclusive environment that enables our people to flourish to their fullest potential. Our current efforts are just a start, but we are confident that these will act as the bedrock supporting further strides in creating a truly inclusive ecosystem. #ProgresswithPride FAQs Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Shell station locatorFind your nearest Shell Station using our station locator tool, and plan your route. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Offers and competitionsCheck out all the exclusive money-saving promotions and great prizes you can win at your local Shell Station. Shell Festive Offers Stay protected this festive season with Shell. Outride Anything With Shell Advance Shell Advance motorcycle engine oil is formulated to give your bike’s engine complete protection, giving you the courage to outride anything. Shell Advance presents “The Ride” We believe that biking is a get-away from our daily routine and it gives us the freedom to express ourselves. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Shell Helix HX8 0W-20: The Ultimate Armor for Your Engine! Shell Lubricants is proud to launch an all-new fully synthetic motor oil – Shell Helix HX8 0W-20. Redesigned for modern turbocharged engines, Shell Helix HX8 0W-20 works hard to offer a high level of protection and cleansing for modern petrol engines. It helps to reduce engine friction to provide enhanced fuel economy. Shell Advance presents “The Ride”We believe that biking is a get-away from our daily routine and it gives us the freedom to express ourselves. “The Ride” Film is a tribute to this passion for life and biking. It’s never too late to be who you want to be in your life! Shell Advance Ultra 15W50-1L pack Applications High-performance air and water-cooled four stroke motorcycle engines including Race-tuned engines Ones with integral gearboxes Even with wet clutches Technology Shell PurePlus Technology converts natural gas into a clear base oil with virtually none of the impurities of crude oil Specification and Approvals SAE 10W-40 and SAE 15W50 API SN JASO MA2 Endorsed by Ducati Advance AX7 15W50- 3L Applications 2.5L to 3L Sumps Suggested for higher CC / higher BHP bikes like Royal Enfield Technology Shell Advance AX7 is formulated with Shell Active Cleansing Technology which helps prevent dirt particles sticking together to form deposit and hence Delivers more power & response Reduces engine noise & vibration Protects & prolongs engine life Specifications SAE 15W50 API SM JASO MA2 By selecting Shell Advance oil, you will know that you are providing Shell’s maximum protection and helping your bike to cope with these high stress levels. When you turn the throttle, you can relax with the knowledge that you will get the most out of your bike for longer. Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Shell Festive OffersStay protected this festive season with Shell. As the festive season draws near, all of us are looking forward to spending this time together with our loved ones and for some of us, this might involve travelling amid these uncertain times. Therefore, we must take precautionary measures to remain safe. At Shell stations, safety comes first, that of our staff and customers. Safety of our vehicles is equally important while planning our travels. While you make sure that you and your loved ones stay protected, we will make sure that your vehicles also stay protected with our range of additivised fuels, exclusive lubricants, and a wide range of Shell branded vehicle care products. To make your celebrations even more special, we have launched a range of special festive offers at our station so that no matter what, you always Go Well protected with Shell. Visit your nearest Shell fuel station and also enjoy Additivised Fuels Safe & Sanitized Refuelling Experience Vehicle Sanitization Service And many more offers at Shell Select! Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Deli2go valentine’s specialEnjoy Valentine’s week with a special delight from deli2go We asked you to vote for your favorite flavor of cappuccino at deli2go, and you did not disappoint! Due to the overwhelming love you have shown us, we have decided to go all out and extend the offer to all the cappuccino flavors available at deli2go at Shell. After all, it’s all about the love! Now enjoy a Buy One and Get One FREE* on every cup of cappuccino purchased at deli2go (participating sites only) on from 12th – 14th Feb and 18th – 21st Feb. More reasons to just hang out with your loved ones! Visit Shell today. Shell select valentine’s specialEnjoy Valentine’s day with a special surprise from Shell Select Who doesn’t love ice cream? We asked you to tell us which ice cream you loved the most, and the flavor that emerged victorious is…. Magnum Brownie As promised, we are running a special offer on Magnum Brownie on Valentine’s Day! Buy 2 Magnum Brownie at a Shell Select outlet on 14th Feb and get 40% OFF*. What are you waiting for? Visit Shell today. Adding a Plus to Your FestivitiesIn the new normal, we have found new ways to celebrate. As one says, “The greatness of a culture can be found in its festivals”. Let us celebrate with our near and dear ones, bring in a time of great rejoice and make this our own kind of festive season.Be it going out with the fam, staying in with your partner, reaching out to old friends or bringing in some new friends… let’s celebrate our way. As you are special to us and we at Shell wish to delight you with our exclusive offers for Go+ users starting from 1st October. Visit your nearest station to avail these offers. Offers for Go+ Members Vehicle Care Range Free Bike Care Kit worth Rs 299 on Oil Change with Advance Power or Advance Long Ride Free Car Care Kit worth Rs 1087 on Oil Change* with Helix Power or Helix Protect. (* 3L and above purchase) Validity: 15th Oct - 31st Dec T & C apply Deli2go Delights Shop for Rs. 149/- and above from Shell Select and avail Rs. 50/- discount on any Deli2go product from the Festive Special menu Validity: 8th Oct - 15th Dec T & C apply Fuel Pricing Enjoy 1% off on Petrol and Shell V-Power Enjoy flat INR 10/- off on Diesel purchase above INR 1500/- Download Shell Go+ India App today to avail these offers Click here for android Click here for iOS Validity: 1st Oct - 31st Dec T & C apply Exclusive offers at Shell Select Available only at our retail outlets Snacks and Beverages Buy 4 packs of Red Bull and get Rs.25 off Buy a Radler can, Radler bottle or Heineken 0.0 can and get a pack of Kurkure free Avail 25% off on purchase of Heineken 0.0 bottle or 6 pack cans* Get 15% off on singles TagZ pack Get 20% off on Kwality Walls Tub and Party Packs These offers are not valid on Go+ Validity: 1st Oct - 31st Dec T & C apply Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Shell Energy India The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. You are now 1 in a million!We are happy to share that we are now a family of 1 million ‘Plus’ members, we thank you for helping us achieve this milestone. As we celebrate this achievement with you, we would like to thank you for being a part of our journey. We truly hope that your every journey has been more rewarding with us and we assure you, the best is yet to come! As a member of our growing community, we’re offering you 2X Go+ bonus points* on your fuel transactions with us. Head to your nearest Shell Fuel Station and double your loyalty points as many times as you like between 15th Dec, 2021 to 31st Dec 2021. Terms & Conditions – Get 2X Go+ points on every fuel purchase The following offer is brought to you by Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd (SIMPL) The following terms and conditions are applicable across all Shell Sites in India that participate in the Shell GO+ digital loyalty program This offer is applicable to any customer who is registered on Shell Asia This offer is valid from 15th Dec, 2021 to 31st Dec 2021 The following are the details of the offer For customers who purchase the following fuel products at all Shell stations -Unleaded Petrol, Diesel, Shell V-Power Unleaded or Shell V-Power Diesel; will receive 2X Go+ points during the mentioned time period To avail the offer, the customer must present his Shell GO+ digital loyalty card on the Shell Asia application at the time of payment for fuel transaction; failure to show the Shell GO+ digital card and having it scanned in the system will result in the offer not being recording in the transaction Upon satisfying the above-mentioned conditions the customer will receive the offer Fueling & offer redemption must happen on the same day, date and must be a part of a single transaction in this Point of Sale system of the concerned Shell Site. Customer must inform the Shell Site on wanting to redeem the offer before initiating the payment This offer can be redeemed only once during the offer period (15th Dec, 2021 to 31st Dec 2021) This offer can be availed only between 9:00 AM to 11:00 PM on valid days (valid days refers to the days covered during the promo period) New users upon successfully registering on Shell Asia app will also be eligible to avail this offer on Shell Asia app Customers cannot redeem the offer in cash or any other article (or in any other mode) Shell India Markets Private Limited will not be responsible for any technical disruption including but not limited to no cellular or data signal on the customer’s mobile phone preventing access to the app, or other technical disruptions at site that may prevent the offer from being issued during this time Shell India Markets Private Limited reserves the exclusive right, in its sole and absolute discretion, to change the article offered & change the sites where offer is active. The company can terminate this offer at any time Shell India Markets Private Limited reserves the right to terminate this offer at its own sole and absolute discretion without prior notice or liability Subject to applicable laws, Shell shall not be liable for any direct or indirect losses, taxes, liabilities or inconvenience suffered by any customer availing the offer as a result of these terms and conditions SHELL’S RIGHTS In addition to these terms & conditions, other specific terms may be imposed by Shell from time to time to deal with any unforeseen situation. Shell also reserves the absolute right to change the terms and conditions contained herein and, or, any other rules and regulations in respect of the offer at any time without any notice, without assigning any reason and without any liability whatsoever. Participants are requested to refer to such other terms and conditions, if any, which may be intimated separately as Shell considers fit. However, no obligation is cast on Shell to separately intimate each individual participant with regard to such additional terms and conditions. Shell also reserves the right to cancel this offer at any stage without any liability whatsoever to the customer. The customer undertakes and declares, by participating in the offer that they shall do so only on satisfying the relevant qualification criteria. The customer(s) hereby give express permission to Shell to freely distribute its submission in any publication and media whether online, offline or on the Internet. Material sent to Shell including feedback and other communications of any kind as well as submission of an entry to this offer shall be deemed to be non-confidential. Shell shall be free to reproduce, distribute and publicly display such feedback, materials without limitation or obligation of any kind. Shell is also free to use any ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques contained in such submissions or materials for any purpose. Each customer understands that each of the officials of Shell engaged in the organization and management of this offer including its directors, officers, partners, employees, consultants, and agents are under no obligation to render any advice or service to any customer in respect of this offer. The customer undertakes to indemnify and keep Shell harmless and indemnified against any loss, damage, claims, costs and expenses which may be incurred or suffered by Shell due to breach of any of the terms and conditions herein contained. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained anywhere, the total aggregate liability of Shell India Markets Private Limited for all claim by the customer or any third party in connection with the offer will be limited to the value of product purchased by the customer. Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of this Offer and, or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue of arbitration shall be Delhi. The Offer shall be governed by and construed in accordance with applicable laws in India and will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Delhi alone. The Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre (“Rules”) shall Apply to the arbitration proceedings and the arbitration shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator to be appointed as per the Rules. The award of Arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties. Each customer must ensure that his or her participation in the offer is lawful in accordance with the laws of India. Neither Shell nor its representatives or agents shall be taken to make any representations, express or implied, as to the lawfulness of any participant's participation in the offer. Participation in the offer will be construed as an acceptance of these terms and conditions stipulated herein and of any terms and conditions already announced as these. Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Shell Energy India The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. Customer Feedback Form – Shell Helix Ultra AHDear Customer, Thank you for choosing Shell Helix Ultra AH for your car. We value your association with Shell Lubricants and would love to have your feedback. Here’s a short form for you to share your feedback with us. Thank you. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Shell Energy India The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. International Women’s Day - #BreakTheBiasHappy Women’s Day to all the incredible women out there! Visit Shell Station on 8th March and get free giveaways from GoDesi exclusively for women. T&C apply General Terms and Conditions of Use 1. This Offer is brought to you by Shell India Markets Pvt. Limited (“SIMPL”/ “Shell”) 2. This Offer will be available at the Shell Company Owned fuel station operated SIMPL herein referred to as the ’Specified Site’ for said promotion 3. Participation in this promotion is deemed acceptance of these Terms and Conditions 4. This offer is valid only for March 8, 2022 or as long as promo stocks last and is on first come first serve basis, due to limited stocks 5. The offer is only for female participant/ customer. The female customer shall be eligible to get a free GoDesi Imli Candies pack (giveaway). 6. The giveaway is restricted to one unit per vehicle. 7. SIMPL shall not be liable for any losses, taxes, liabilities, or inconvenience suffered by any customer as a result of these terms and conditions, availing this promotion or consuming products purchased under this promotional offer. 8. By accepting the giveaway, the customer confirms that she is aware about the product including the effects of consumption, and in no way, Shell shall be made responsible for any loss, injury or health effect to the customer or anyone who consumes the same. 9. SIMPL shall not be liable under or in connection with these terms and conditions or for this promotion for any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by the customer and Shell and whether arising from breach of contract, tort, negligence, breach of statutory duty or otherwise. 10. In the event of any inconsistency between these terms and conditions and any advertising, promotional, publicity and other materials relating to or in connection with this promotion, these terms and conditions shall prevail. 11. This offer cannot be combined with any other ongoing offer or discount at the site. 12. SIMPL reserves the right to change promotional offer or the terms and conditions of this promotional offer at its discretion without prior notice or liability to the customer. All decisions made by SIMPL in respect of this promotion or in the event of any dispute are final and no correspondence will be entertained. Shell India Markets Pvt Limited’s rights 13. SIMPL may (i) extend (ii) terminate or suspend the promotion at any time due to circumstances beyond the control (iii) substitute the giveaway. 14. The giveaway will not be replaced at customer’s request or demand by any alternative or cash equivalent although SIMPL reserves the right to substitute the giveaway for similar giveaway of equal or greater value. The giveaway is not transferable. 15. In addition to these terms & conditions, other specific terms may be imposed by Shell India Markets Pvt Limited from time to time to deal with any unforeseen situation. Shell also reserves the absolute right to change the terms and conditions contained herein and, or, any other rules and regulations in respect of the promotion at any time without any notice, without assigning any reason and without any liability whatsoever. Customers are requested to refer to such other terms and conditions, if any, which may be intimated separately as Shell considers fit. However, no obligation is cast on SIMPL to separately intimate each individual participant with regard to such additional terms and conditions. 16. SIMPL also reserves the right to cancel this promotion at any stage without any liability whatsoever to the customer. 17. The customer undertakes to indemnify and keep SIMPL harmless and indemnified against any loss, damage, claims, costs, and expenses which may be incurred or suffered by SIMPL due to breach of any of the terms and conditions herein contained. 18. Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of this promotional offer and or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue of arbitration shall be Delhi India. The Promotion shall be governed by and construed in accordance with Applicable laws in India and will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Delhi alone. The Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre (“Rules”) shall Apply to the arbitration proceedings and the arbitration shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator to be Appointed as per the Rules. The award of Arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties. 19. Each customer must ensure that his or her purchases in the promotion is lawful in accordance with the laws of India. Neither SIMPL nor its representatives or agents shall be taken to make any representations, express or implied, as to the lawfulness of any participant's participation in the promotion. 20. Purchases made under the promotion will be construed as an acceptance of these terms and conditions stipulated herein and of any terms and conditions already announced as these. Shell Festive Offers Stay protected this festive season with Shell. Outride Anything With Shell Advance Shell Advance motorcycle engine oil is formulated to give your bike’s engine complete protection, giving you the courage to outride anything. Shell Advance presents “The Ride” We believe that biking is a get-away from our daily routine and it gives us the freedom to express ourselves. Refresh, Refuel, Resume!Hitting the road soon? Embrace the summer vibes with exciting offers on refreshingly cool beverages at a Shell Select near you! Snacks and NAB Terms and Conditions for Snacks and NAB deli2go Terms and Conditions for deli2go Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Shell Select PromotionsBrowse our latest Shell Select and Shell Shop promotions and specials Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Recharge & go all the way to the Formula E 2023 Hyd E-PrixIt’s time for you to enter the racing arena with us! Recharge your EV with Shell Recharge’s ultra-fast, reliable & hassle-free charging, as many times as possible between 23 Dec 2022 till 15 Jan 2023. Our top 5 EV customers with maximum energy units consumed will stand a chance to win an all-expense paid trip to Formula E 2023 Hyderabad E-Prix*. *T&C Apply. Terms and conditions: These terms prevail in the event of any conflict or inconsistency with any other communications, including advertising or promotional materials. Entry and claim instructions can be found here to form part of the terms and conditions and by participating, all entrants will be deemed to have accepted and be bound by the terms and conditions. 1. Start date This promotion will start on 23rd December 2022 across all Shell Recharge sites, in India. To qualify for this promotion, you must be a resident of India. Further, this offer is valid for only B2C customers who are consuming electricity for their own use. 2. Closing date The closing date for this promotion is 15th January 2023 at 11:59 P.M. 3. Selection of the winners The top 5 customers based on the units of electricity purchased during the offer period. 4. Prizes: The prize are as follows: Grandstand Tickets for Formula E race in India to be held in Hyderabad on February 11, 2023. Domestic flight tickets (economy class) both to and fro. Hotel accommodation on a single occupancy basis for 1 night. No cash or other alternative prize will be provided in whole or in part, except that in the event of circumstances outside of its control Shell reserves the right to substitute a similar prize of equal or greater value. Exchanges will not be provided in the event of delays, cancellations, changes to race schedules or being unable to attend the race for any reason. 5. Notification of the results and receipt of the prize Shell will notify the winners by e-mail within 7 calendar days of the end of the promotional period. Entrants are advised to check their spam filters. If Shell is unable to contact a winner or doesn’t get a response within 48 hours, it reserves the right to reallocate the prize to another winner. To claim the prize, the winner must provide evidence of residency in India. Such evidence must be provided in the form of a driving licence and utility bill dated no more than three months prior to the date it is requested. When the prize has been claimed successfully Shell will arrange the prize directly with the winner. Shell reserves the right to withdraw the prize and draw an alternative winner where the winner fails to claim the prize within stipulated term or fails to produce the correct evidence or fails to abide by the rules of the Promotion. 6. Publicity and winners’ list Shell will only use the personal data supplied by the entrant for the administration of the promotion and for no other purpose unless the entrant has explicitly granted its consent in advance for the other purpose. Shell will not sell or otherwise disclose personal data of entrants unless the entrant has explicitly granted its consent in advance. Entrant personal data will at all times be kept confidential and in accordance with Shell Privacy Policy (https://www.shell.in/privacy.html). By participating in the Promotion, you agree to the use of your personal data as described herein. General Shell reserves the right to verify all entries including but not limited to asking for address and identity details and to refuse to award a prize or withdraw prize entitlement and/or refuse further participation in the promotion and disqualify the participant where there are reasonable grounds to believe there has been a breach of these terms and conditions or any instructions forming part of this promotion’s entry requirements or otherwise where a participant has gained unfair advantage in participating in the promotion or won using fraudulent means. Any personal/income tax liability arising from receipt of the prize will be the responsibility of the recipient. If any of these clauses should be determined to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable then it shall be severed and deleted from these terms and conditions and the remaining clauses shall survive and remain in full force and effect. Failure by Shell to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall limit in any way Shell and its associated agencies and companies’ liability for death or personal injury caused by their negligence. Subject to that Shell and its associated agencies and companies, shall have no liability for any delay and/or failure to perform any obligation to entrants that is caused by: (a) technical problems of any kind which may limit or prevent any person’s participation in the promotion – either completing a booking or completing an entry; (b) any loss or damage arising from or in connection with the allocation of the rewards; (c) any act or omission of any third party . Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of this promotional offer and or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue of arbitration shall be Delhi India. The Promotion shall be governed by and construed in accordance with Applicable laws in India and will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Delhi alone. The Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre (“Rules”) shall Apply to the arbitration proceedings and the arbitration shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator to be Appointed as per the Rules. The award of Arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties. Shell Recharge terms and conditions also apply. Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Merry Christmas General Terms and Conditions of Use This Offer is brought to you by Shell India Markets Pvt. Limited (“SIMPL”/ “Shell”) This Offer will be available at the Shell (Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, AP/Telangana CO Sites) fuel station operated SIMPL herein referred to as the ’Specified Site’ for said promotion Participation in this promotion is deemed acceptance of these Terms and Conditions This offer is valid only for December 25, 2022 or as long as promo stocks last and is on first come first serve basis, due to limited stocks The Participant shall be eligible to get a free perfume card (giveaway). The giveaway is restricted to one unit per vehicle. SIMPL shall not be liable for any losses, taxes, liabilities, or inconvenience suffered by any customer as a result of these terms and conditions, availing this promotion or consuming products purchased under this promotional offer. By accepting the free giveaway, consumer confirms that he/she is aware about the product including the effects of use, and in no way, Shell shall be made responsible for any loss, injury or health effect to the customer or any person who uses the same. SIMPL shall not be liable under or in connection with these terms and conditions or for this promotion for any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by the customer and SIMPL and whether arising from breach of contract, tort, negligence, breach of statutory duty or otherwise. In the event of any inconsistency between these terms and conditions and any advertising, promotional, publicity and other materials relating to or in connection with this promotion, these terms and conditions shall prevail. SIMPL reserves the right to change promotional offer or the terms and conditions of this promotional offer at its discretion without prior notice or liability to the customer. All decisions made by SIMPL in respect of this promotion or in the event of any dispute are final and no correspondence will be entertained Shell India Markets Private Limited’s rights SIMPL may (i) extend (ii) terminate or suspend the promotion at any time due to circumstances beyond the control of SIMPL. The giveaway will not be replaced at customers request or demand by any alternative or cash equivalent although SIMPL reserves the right to substitute the giveaway for similar giveaway of equal or greater value. The giveaway is not transferable. In addition to these terms & conditions, other specific terms may be imposed by SIMPL from time to time to deal with any unforeseen situation. SIMPL also reserves the absolute right to change the terms and conditions contained herein and, or, any other rules and regulations in respect of the promotion at any time without any notice, without assigning any reason and without any liability whatsoever. Customers are requested to refer to such other terms and conditions, if any, which may be intimated separately as SIMPL considers fit. However, no obligation is cast on SIMPL to separately intimate each individual participant with regard to such additional terms and conditions. SIMPL also reserves the right to cancel this promotion at any stage without any liability whatsoever to the customer. The customer undertakes to indemnify and keep SIMPL harmless and indemnified against any loss, damage, claims, costs, and expenses which may be incurred or suffered by SIMPL due to breach of any of the terms and conditions herein contained. Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of this promotional offer and or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue of arbitration shall be Delhi, India. This promotion shall be governed by and construed in accordance with applicable laws in India and will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Delhi alone. The Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre (“Rules”) shall Apply to the arbitration proceedings and the arbitration shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator to be appointed as per the Rules. The award of arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties. Each customer must ensure that his or her participation in the promotion is lawful in accordance with the laws of India. Neither SIMPL nor its representatives or agents shall be taken to make any representations, express or implied, as to the lawfulness of any participant's participation in the promotion. Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Shell Helix HX8 0W-20: The Ultimate Armor for Your Engine!Shell Lubricants is proud to launch an all-new fully synthetic motor oil – Shell Helix HX8 0W-20. Redesigned for modern turbocharged engines, Shell Helix HX8 0W-20 works hard to offer a high level of protection and cleansing for modern petrol engines. It helps to reduce engine friction to provide enhanced fuel economy. What’s more? Shell Helix HX8 0W-20 launches in association with MARVEL Heroes Unite. Now win exclusive prizes of your favourite MARVEL characters like Ironman, Captain America, Thor and Hulk with every purchase of 3L and 3.5L!* Head over to your nearest Shell branded workshop or retail outlet and ask for your MARVEL prize now! The benefits of API SP American Petroleum Institute (API) SP is the latest API engine oil standard for passenger car motor oils and requires new and tightened performance. The standards aim to meet the demanding needs of turbocharged petrol direct injection (TGDI) engines, the use of which is increasing because of the need to reduce environmental pollution and fuel use. Growing environmental awareness and emissions regulations mean turbocharged engines are becoming more common. API SP motor oils are designed to meet the demanding requirements of modern engines equipped with TGDI technology help to control low-speed pre-ignition (LSPI) provide extra wear protection for the timing chain and valve intakes with improved antiwear and antioxidation performance. BS VI Compliant API SP Enhanced Fuel Economy *Terms and Conditions: This promotional offer (HELIX HX8 0W-20 MARVEL promo) is brought to you by Shell India Markets Pvt. Limited (SIMPL). Purchases made under the promotion will be construed as an acceptance of these terms and conditions stipulated herein and of any terms and conditions already announced as these. All the participants of this promotional offer must be residing in India at the time of availing the offer. The promotional offer is valid from 5th February 2023, till stocks lasts and is subject to availability at the time of purchase. The promotional offer is applicable on every purchase of 3L and 3.5L pack only and is applicable only on offline purchase through retail outlet, Shell branded workshops, lube retailers or any other offline channel. SIMPL reserves the right to change, discontinue or terminate the promotional offer anytime. SIMPL reserves the right to change the terms and conditions of this promotional offer at its discretion without prior notice or liability to the customer. All decisions made by SIMPL in respect of this promotion or in the event of any dispute are final and no correspondence will be entertained. Subject to applicable laws, SIMPL shall not be liable for any losses, taxes, liabilities or inconvenience suffered by any customer as a result of these terms and conditions, availing this promotion or consuming products purchased under this promotional offer. SIMPL shall not be liable under or in connection with these terms and conditions or for this promotion for any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by the customer and SIMPL and whether arising from breach of contract, tort, negligence, breach of statutory duty or otherwise. Promotion/Offer will not be replaced at customers request or demand by any alternative or cash equivalent. The promotion/ offer is not transferable. Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of this promotional offer and or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue of arbitration shall be Delhi, India. The promotion shall be governed by and construed in accordance with applicable laws in India and will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Delhi alone. The rules of arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre (“Rules”) shall apply to the arbitration proceedings and the arbitration shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator to be appointed as per the rules. The award of arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties. Each customer must ensure that his or her purchases in the promotion is lawful in accordance with the laws of India. Neither SIMPL nor its representatives or agents shall be taken to make any representations, express or implied, as to the lawfulness of any participant's participation in the promotion. Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Shell fuelsAll Shell Fuels are additivised to offer you superior cleaning protection to your engine. So make the smart choice with Shell1. Unleaded from Shell Get the dual advantage of Unleaded from Shell. Efficient Running & Clean Engine1 Shell V-Power Learn more about Shell V-Power with DYNAFLEX Technology. Shell DYNAFLEX Technology Find out more about DYNAFLEX Technology More from Shell Fuels Shell Drive Challenges Take the performance and efficiency challenges and see how close you are to the perfect score. Find out more about our challenges Disclaimers: Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. See Shell DYNAFLEX Technology for more information. Disclaimer: According to industry standard and Shell proprietary tests. Helps to protect key fuel system components such as inlet valves and/or fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to motorcycle type, riding conditions and riding style. No guarantees provided. Disclaimers: Shell expressly disclaims responsibility for any adverse effects that may result from the use or application of the ethanol blended fuel in the customer’s vehicle(s). The Customer understands and agrees that usage of ethanol blended fuel above the prescribed limit as per respective vehicle OEM recommendations could result in permanent damage to the vehicle engine and might also make the vehicle insurance void. Accordingly, the Customer is procuring the ethanol blended fuel after being fully aware of its implications, if any on its vehicle health, warranty and insurance. Under no circumstances shall company, its subsidiaries, or affiliates or the directors, officers, employees, or other representatives of each of them (collectively, the “company entities and individuals”) be liable to the Customer for any loss or damages of any kind (including, without limitation, for any special, direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, economic, punitive, or consequential damages that are directly or indirectly related to usage of ethanol blended fuel in the Customer’s vehicle(s), even if foreseeable or even if the company entities and individuals have been advised of the possibility of such damages whether in an action of contract, negligence, strict liability and/ or tort. In no event will the company entities and individuals be liable to the Customer or anyone else for loss or injury, including, without limitation, death or personal injury. Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell Oils and Lubricants Discover our range of world-class lubricants and the technological insights that lead to their formulation. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell DYNAFLEX TechnologyWhat is DYNAFLEX technology or DYNAFLEX formulation and how does DYNFELX technology work in engines? What is DYNAFLEX technology or DYNAFLEX formulation? DYNAFLEX technology or DYNAFLEX formulation are our names for our latest generation of advanced formulations for gasoline and diesel fuels. All of our latest generation of fuels are formulated with our new DYNAFLEX technology. Just as petrol and diesel are different, we have developed unique DYNAFLEX formulations for each fuel type. Modern engines are becoming more and more efficient. As a result, fuels are exposed to tougher conditions (i.e. higher temperatures and pressures) which can lead to the formation of dirt on key fuel system components such as intake valves and fuel injectors. All DYNAFLEX formulations are complex blends that are specially designed to help maintain engine efficiency as the vehicle manufacturers’ designed. DYNAFLEX technology works by being enriched with powerful cleaning agents to help maintain the cleanliness of key fuel system components and protect them from performance robbing deposits.1 Our Shell V-Power fuels are also designed to help clean away existing fuel system deposits.1 Our gasoline Shell fuels with DYNAFLEX technology also contain our new friction modifier which helps the piston assembly, found in the heart of engines, turn more freely to help reduce energy wasted as heat.2 How does DYNAFLEX technology work in engines? Our Challenge – Deposits in fuel systems Shell’s team of scientists have created bespoke DYNAFLEX formulations for diesel and gasoline engines. In creating our new DYNAFLEX formulations we drew on over 100 years of experience in fuels research and development. The world’s car manufacturers are on a quest for improved engine efficiency. Our new DYNAFLEX formulations draw on our experience and insights into the demands of both older and modern engines. Modern engines are becoming smaller whilst maintaining high power outputs and often use new technologies (such as direct fuel injection and turbocharging) to help achieve performance and efficiency. Deposits can form, over time, on key fuel system components such as fuel injectors in diesel engines and intake valves/fuel injectors in gasoline engines. Shell’s DYNAFLEX formulations are designed to help control dirt deposits in key fuel system components2. The development of our new range of Shell fuels with DYNAFLEX technology is the culmination of a multi-year research and development program which involved tests in over 3 million km and over 240 cars.3 Our Solutions Shell FuelSave Diesel In diesel engines, dirty injectors can contribute to inefficient combustion. DYNAFLEX technology in Shell FuelSave Diesel contains powerful new and improved cleaning molecule that help to maintain injector cleanliness.1 Tests have shown that engines running on Shell FuelSave Diesel with DYNAFLEX technology have significantly less deposit related power loss and cleaner fuel injectors help to maintain engine efficiency.1 Shell FuelSave Gasoline DYNAFLEX technology in Shell FuelSave Gasoline is designed to help maintain the cleanliness of fuel system components, such as intake valves and fuels injectors with its advanced cleaning molecules.1 Maintaining fuel system cleanliness helps engines run as designed and cleaner intake valves/fuel injectors help to maintain engine efficiency.1 DYNAFLEX technology in Shell FuelSave Gasoline also contain our latest generation friction modifier.2 Friction occurs when moving parts slide over each other and is a source of waste and inefficiency in engines. One key area where frictional energy losses occur is between the pistons and the cylinder wall. The new friction modifier in Shell FuelSave Diesel with DYNAFLEX technology works by forming a film on key piston assembly components help them slide over each other more freely resulting in less energy wasted and helping maintain engine efficiency.2 Our new Shell FuelSave Gasoline with DYNAFLEX technology, including new friction reducing molecules, have been demonstrated better performance under tougher conditions on the highway as well as in the city.4 Shell V-Power Gasoline – designed for performance and efficiency DYNAFLEX technology in Shell V-Power Gasoline is formulated with powerful cleaning molecules designed to prevent and remove performance-robbing engine deposits.1 Our advanced formulation is designed to work under the extreme conditions of the fuel intake system, breaking down and cleaning-away deposits.1 This helps to ensure that the fuel intake system is kept clean so your engine can breathe better, helping your cars performance.1 New Shell V-Power Gasoline with DYNAFLEX technology is boosted with 3x more friction-reducing and 3x deposit control molecules (than compared to our Shell FuelSave Gasoline with DYNAFLEX technology), to help efficiency and performance.5 Our new Shell V-Power Gasoline with DYNAFLEX formulation with new boosted friction reducing molecules, have been demonstrated better performance under tougher conditions on the highway as well as in the city.5 Shell V-Power Diesel designed for performance and efficiency Boosted levels of cleaning molecules in Shell V-Power Diesel with DYNAFLEX technology can help to clean-up dirty fuel injectors in engines.6 Our advanced new DYNAFLEX technology in Shell V-Power Diesel is designed to work under the extreme conditions of the fuel injection system, breaking down and cleaning-away deposits.1 Shell V-Power Diesel can help to restore up to 100% of your engine's performance lost to deposits in the fuel injectors and cleaner fuel injectors help to maintain engine efficiency.7 Disclaimers: Helps to clean key fuel system components such as intake valves and/or fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. Friction reducing molecules help critical parts of your engine. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. Tests conducted since 2009 on European and Asian vehicles from a wide range of major manufacturers. Not all vehicles available in [insert relevant market]. Compared to Shell's previous formulation of Shell FuelSave Gasoline in demonstration tests. Friction reducing molecules help critical parts of your engine. No guarantees provided. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. Boosted compared to Shell's regular FuelSave fuel in demonstration tests. Helps to clean key fuel system components such as intake valves and/or fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Friction reducing molecules help critical parts of your engine. 3x more molecules does not equal 3x more cleaning or friction reducing benefit. No guarantees provided. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. Boosted compared to Shell’s regular FuelSave fuel. Helps to clean key fuel system components such as fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Friction reducing molecules help critical parts of your engine. No guarantees provided. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. Helps to restore performance by removing performance robbing deposits from key fuel system components such as fuel injectors under industry standard tests carried out according to DW10B. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle age, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. [CORRESPONDING CLAIM NOT TO BE USED IN ALL MARKETS] Shell V-Power Diesel Discover how Shell V-Power Diesel is specially formulated for the demands of modern diesel engines. Fuel Pricing in IndiaWe answer some of the most frequently asked questions about fuel prices and how the cost of a liter of fuel is made up. Effective date - 1 July 2023 These prices are for indicative purposes only and may not reflect most recent price changes. Please check at your nearest shell outlet for up to date pricing information. Pump Prices (INR/ltr) City Diesel Vpower Diesel Unleaded Petrol Vpower Petrol AHMEDABAD 96.17 111.67 109.32 118.82 RAJKOT 95.95 111.45 106.42 115.92 SURAT 96.06 111.56 107.97 117.47 VADODARA 95.82 111.32 107.33 116.83 PUNE 98.36 111.86 119.13 128.43 BANGALORE 91.89 107.39 114.1 123.6 MYSORE 91.49 106.99 112.12 121.62 CHENNAI 98.24 113.74 115.64 125.14 Notes: *Prices might vary from site to site in the same city “Shell India prices the fuels on the basis of the International crude oil prices. Hence the prices are subject to changes. These prices are effective from 1 Jul 2023" Shell V-Power Learn more about Shell V-Power with DYNAFLEX Technology. Shell DYNAFLEX Technology Find out more about DYNAFLEX Technology Festive Price Offer on Unleaded Petrol at ShellThis festive season, enjoy offer on every litre of Unleaded Petrol at Shell, in Chennai Terms & Conditions (Special Offer) 1. The following festive offer is brought to you by Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd (SIMPL) 2. The following terms and conditions are applicable to the special price offer of INR 3/- off on the per liter price of Unleaded Petrol at all Shell Retail Fuel stations in Chennai except at Shell retail fuel stations located at the following sites in Chennai. S.No Site Location Site Address 1 Avadi Paruthipattu Village (Avadi), Cth Road, Avadi Taluk, Thiruvallur District 2 V.K. Road Village - Sathankuppam, Kelambakkam, Chengalpet Taluk 3 Padappai Vandalur-Oragadam-Walajabad Road, Sriperumbudur Taluk, Kanchipuram, Padappai 4 Injambakkam No. 146, East Coast Road, Injambakkam, Chennai, Tamil Nadu - 5 Medavakkam 265/12, Medavakkam Main Road, Chennai 3. This festive price offer on unleaded Petrol will be available from 11th January ,2019 to 10th February,2019. 4. SIMPL reserves the exclusive right to fix shell pump price and other elements of fuel price. 5. SIMPL reserves the right to terminate this offer at any time in its sole discretion without prior notice or liability 6. The drop in prices is benchmarked to price of Unleaded Petrol from SIMPL and the fuel price can fluctuate due to market conditions during the offer period. 7. Subject to applicable laws, Shell shall not be liable for any losses, taxes, liabilities or inconvenience suffered by any customer availing the offer because of these terms and conditions 8. In addition to these terms & conditions, other specific terms may be imposed by Shell from time to time to deal with any unforeseen situation. Shell also reserves the absolute right to change the terms and conditions contained herein and, or, any other rules and regulations in respect of the offer at any time without any notice, without assigning any reason and without any liability whatsoever. Participants are requested to refer to such other terms and conditions, if any, which may be intimated separately as Shell considers fit. However, no obligation is cast on Shell to separately intimate each individual participant with regard to such additional terms and conditions. 9. Shell also reserves the right to cancel this offer at any stage without any liability whatsoever to the customer. 10. Material sent to Shell including feedback and other communications of any kind shall be deemed to be non-confidential. Shell shall be free to reproduce, distribute and publicly display such feedback, materials without limitation or obligation of any kind. Shell is also free to use any ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques contained in such materials for any purpose. 11. Each customer understands that each of the officials of Shell engaged in the organization and management of this offer including its directors, officers, partners, employees, consultants, and agents are under no obligation to render any advice or service to any customer in respect of this offer. 12. The customer undertakes to indemnify and keep Shell harmless and indemnified against any loss, damage, claims, costs and expenses which may be incurred or suffered by Shell due to breach of any of the terms and conditions herein contained. 13. Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of this Offer and, or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue of arbitration shall be Bangalore. The Offer shall be governed by and construed in accordance with applicable laws in India and will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Bangalore alone. The Rules of Indian Council of Arbitration (“Rules”) shall apply to the arbitration proceedings and the arbitration shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator to be appointed as per the Rules. 14. Each customer must ensure that his or her participation in the offer is lawful in accordance with the laws of India. Neither Shell nor its representatives or agents shall be taken to make any representations, express or implied, as to the lawfulness of any participant's participation in the offer. 15. Participation in the offer will be construed as an acceptance of these terms and conditions stipulated herein and of any terms and conditions already announced as these. Unleaded from ShellGet the dual advantage of Unleaded from Shell. Efficient Running & Clean Engine1. Unleaded Petrol from Shell contains DYNAFLEX Technology. In a recent Shell proprietary test conducted on India’s Honda Activa, Unleaded from Shell achieved 9.9 out of 10 score rating on bike's engine cleanliness technology1 Unleaded Petrol from Shell is designed to give you instant extra benefit- Instant Engine Protection and Instant Fuel Savings2 Disclaimer: According to industry standard and Shell proprietary tests. Tests conducted on Honda Activa from a clean condition compared to industry regular/standard fuels. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to motorcycle type, riding conditions and riding style. No guarantees provided. Helps to clean and protect key fuel system components such as intake valves and/or fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Friction reducing molecules help critical parts of your engine. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. Shell DYNAFLEX Technology Find out more about DYNAFLEX Technology Fuel Pricing in India All you want to know about the updated fuel pricing followed by Shell in India Shell V-PowerNew Shell V-Power is our best performance fuel thanks to our boosted DYNAFELX technology.1 It not only helps improve engine condition, but also helps to maximize energy from the fuel.2 Shell V-Power Rewards With Shell V-Power, it’s always been about the best drive experience, and now it’s time we take it beyond just the drive! To take our relationship to the next level, we bring you Shell V-Power Rewards – our way of rewarding you for picking Shell V Power for your vehicle. Shell V-Power Diesel Discover how Shell V-Power Diesel is specially formulated for the demands of modern diesel engines. Shell V-Power Creating a fuel that that provides our best performance and efficiency3 requires insight, effort and planning. That’s why we’ve worked with the Scuderia Ferrari to develop the new and improved Shell V-Power.4 Shell V-Power has the highest level of the breakthrough DYNAFLEX formulation, containing three times more of our new friction-reducing and cleaning molecules to help protect your engine.5 The only fuel co-engineered with and recommended by Ferrari, Shell V-Power is shown to deliver our best performance, both in laboratory conditions and in on-road testing.3 So wherever you go, go with our best performance and efficiency.3 Because doesn’t your engine deserve our best?3 Disclaimers: Boosted compared to Shell's regular FuelSave fuel. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. See Shell DYNAFLEX Technology for more information about DYNAFLEX technology. Compared to Shell's regular FuelSave fuel. Engine condition improved by helping to the remove performance robbing deposits from key fuel system components such as intake valves and/or fuel injectors. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, driving conditions and driving style. No guarantees provided. See Shell DYNAFLEX Technology for more information. Compared to previous Shell V-Power fuel formulations. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. See Shell DYNAFLEX Technology for more information. New and improved compared to previous Shell V-Power formulations. Boosted compared to Shell's regular FuelSave fuel. Engine condition improved by helping to the remove performance robbing deposits from key fuel system components such as intake valves and/or fuel injectors. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, driving conditions and driving style. No guarantees provided. See Shell DYNAFLEX Technology for more information. Compared to Shell's regular FuelSave fuel. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. Helps to protect key fuel system components such as intake valves and fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Friction reducing molecules help critical parts of your engine. No guarantees provided. See Shell DYNAFLEX Technology for more information about DYNAFLEX technology and the breakthrough formulations of additives. Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell V-Power UnleadedIntroducing our latest-generation Shell V-Power Unleaded, contains 3x more cleaning molecules than our regular Unleaded2 fuel. Product Benefits Our best cleaning power Our Shell V-Power Unleaded is boosted with 40% more cleaning molecules than before1. It contains a friction-reducing ingredient as part of the breakthrough DYNAFLEX formulation. It also contains 3 x the amount of friction modifier than our unleaded fuel2. Dynaflex Technology A nutritious diet helps athletes to perform. It is similar with your car’s engine. Shell V-Power unleaded fuel with boosted Dynaflex Technology is designed to help restore your engine’s performance3. Helps to reduce engine friction Shell V-Power Unleaded contains a new friction reducing ingredient, which is designed to get to work at the heart of the engine to help critical parts move more freely. Go with our best performance fuel4. Disclaimers Compared to Shell's previous formulation of Shell V-power unleaded. Helps to clean and protect key fuel system components such as intake valves and/or fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. Boosted 3x compared to Shell's regular unleaded fuel. Helps to clean key fuel system components such as intake valves and/or fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Friction reducing molecules help critical parts of your engine. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. Boosted compared to Shell’s regular unleaded fuel. Actual benefits may vary. No guarantee provided. Compared to previous Shell V-Power Unleaded formulations. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, driving conditions and driving style. No guarantees provided. Shell V-Power Diesel Discover how Shell V-Power Diesel is specially formulated for the demands of modern diesel engines. Shell DYNAFLEX Technology Find out more about DYNAFLEX Technology Fuel Pricing in India All you want to know about the updated fuel pricing followed by Shell in India Shell V-Power DieselModern diesel engines are constantly setting new standards. And to set our own, we have tirelessly innovated to create Shell V-Power Diesel with boosted DYNAFLEX Technology for our best cleaning performance1. Product Benefits Performance Shell V-Power Diesel helps to restore up to 100% of your engine's performance by removing performance robbing deposits from key fuel system components such as fuel injectors2. When you clean your shower head with a limescale remover, you see a big improvement in your shower spray’s performance. It is similar with Shell V-Power fuel; by helping to remove built up deposits that have already formed on the intake valves and/or fuel injector nozzles, it helps to restore your engine’s performance1 Dynaflex Technology Shell V-Power Diesel with boosted DYNAFLEX Technology for our best cleaning performance1. Shell V-Power Diesel, helps to restores performance by removing dirt from key engine parts. So you enjoy the feeling of a more responsive engine when you drive3. Find out more about DYNAFLEX Technology Disclaimer Compared to Shell's maingrade diesel fuel. Helps to clean key fuel system components such as fuel injectors from the build up of performance robbing deposits. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. Shell V-Power Diesel helps to restore performance by removing performance robbing deposits from key fuel system components such as fuel injectors under industry standard tests carried out according to DW10B. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle age, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. Helps to restore performance by removing performance robbing deposits from key fuel system components such as fuel injectors under industry standard tests carried out according to DW10B. Demonstrated with a Toyota Hilux with the mileage of 37,500 km and registration year of 2015 – which was tested under Shell proprietary test conditions. The test provides statistically significant results that validate the power of the Toyota Hilux is higher with injectors that have been cleaned up with Shell V-Power Diesel during acceleration process and acceleration is faster between fixed speeds. Actual effects and benefits may vary according to vehicle type, vehicle age, vehicle condition and driving style. No guarantees provided. See [insert URL] for more information. Shell V-Power Unleaded Explore how we’ve changed and improved our latest generation Shell V-Power Unleaded. Shell DYNAFLEX Technology Find out more about DYNAFLEX Technology Fuel Pricing in India All you want to know about the updated fuel pricing followed by Shell in India Shell engine oils and lubricantsShell is the number one global lubricant supplier, delivering market-leading lubricants to consumers in over 100 countries. Shell Lubricants brings world-class technological insights to its products, offering you the best formulations for your vehicle.* Source: Kline & Company, Competitive Intelligence for the Global Lubricants Industry, 2007–2013. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Coolant Range Shell’s new range of coolants are based on superior Organic Additive Technology (OAT) that outperform conventional coolants. Fully Synthetic Engine Oils For Cars - Shell Helix Shell Helix fully synthetic engine oils are manufactured from 100% synthetic base stock and high-quality additives to achieve higher performance levels than both synthetic technology and mineral oils. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus technology Motor Oil Reimagined. The first synthetic motor oil designed from natural gas that gives you long lasting engine performance. Car Engine Oils – Shell HelixWe understand your passion for driving. Whether you drive for the sound, the night lights, performance or your best friend, we know why you drive. That's why Shell Helix Fully Synthetic HX8 is made from natural gas and designed for ultimate engine performance, so you can keep your passion for driving alive and Drive On. Experience Ultimate Engine Performance In 360° Feel the thrill of driving 99 turns of Tianmen Mountain Road in China. Read the transcript for the 99 turns 360 video To watch 360° videos, you need the latest version of Chrome, Opera, Firefox, or Internet Explorer on your computer. On mobile devices, use the latest version of the YouTube app for Android or iOS. Engine stress and wear protection No matter what the drive, Shell Helix Ultra provides superior protection against engine stress and wear and because Shell Helix Ultra is a modern synthetic made from natural gas; it’s stronger and less volatile at the molecular level than those made from traditional crude. It stays stronger for longer to provide superior protection against wear, up to 32% better resistance to oil degradation than the latest industry standard* and up to 50% less evaporation to help keep your passion for driving alive. *Compared with API SN specification Extreme temperature performance Whether it’s 1000 degrees or -40C below, Shell Helix Ultra is designed for extreme temperatures. Extreme Heat: Engines can reach extreme temperatures within a few minutes. Oil is lubricating the turbocharger which operates at temperatures up to 1,000°C. High-temperature oxidation can damage molecules, causing the oil to thicken, and reduces its ability to protect the engine. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology stays stronger for longer in extreme high temperatures to keep performing and protecting the engine. It provides up to 32% better resistance to oil degradation than the latest industry standard* Extreme Cold: Superior low temperature flow even at -40 degrees. Shell Helix Ultra, with Shell PurePlus Technology, has a lower viscosity that allows it to flow faster at low temperatures*. It flows up to 3x faster* for easier starting and quicker engine warmup. Oil thickening due to high-temperature degradation can mean slower oil flow at low temperatures. Shell Helix Ultra better resists high-temperature attack, enabling the oil to perform better at low temperatures so you can Drive On. *Compared with API SN specification Ultimate power and performance From Turbos to Super Chargers, if you love driving for the power and performance, Shell Helix Ultra Fully Synthetic Motor oils has you covered. Because our synthetics are made from natural gas our oils are stronger at a molecular level. Making them superior to traditional mineral oils made from crude. The result is enhanced viscosity, reduced friction and lower volatility. Perfect for high performance engines and protecting vital engine parts and horsepower by staying stronger for longer. Superior Piston Cleanliness Tested both on the road and on the track, Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology helps to protect high-performance engines from harmful deposits that hinder your power and performance to Drive On. No other motor oil cleans your engine better**. Or helps keep your engine closer to factory clean. *Based on 100,000 Km fleet trial **Based on Sequence VG sludge test results using OW-40 Better Fuel Economy Start saving as soon as you start your engine. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology has low-viscosity, low-friction formulations, which can result in up to 3% greater fuel economy.* Giving you more money and more miles to drive on and on and on with. *Based on ACEA M 111 fuel economy results compared with the industry reference oil Scuderia Ferrari Shell Helix Ultra helps to power, protect and cool the Scuderia Ferrari powerunit. Recognized as one of the most successful teams in Formula One™ history and one of the world’s most iconic automotive brands, Shell Helix Ultra is a critical part of the Innovation Partnership with Ferrari on both the track and the road. In fact, the lubricants found in the Scuderia Ferrari’s high performance racing engines powerunit shares many of the same building blocks (base oils and additives) as those found in the Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology available to road-going customers around the world. Plus, every GT road car that to leaves the Ferrari factory is filled with Shell Helix Ultra Synthetic motor oils. “The demands and stresses on a Formula 1 engine are extraordinary. We need it to perform to its best every single time and last for multiple races. Shell Helix Ultra helps to deliver both the protection and the performance we need to do the job on the track.” - Sebastian Vettel, Scuderia Ferrari Driver BMW Motorsport A shared passion for driving and performance. BMW Motorsport and Shell Helix Ultra have a Premium Technology Partnership, and a winning one at that. Shell Helix Ultra scientists work closely with BMW Motorsport engineers to better fit the benefits of PurePlus Technology into the BMW M4 DTM car, ensuring the maximum performance of the engine unit in every race*. Ultimately to benefit the motorist on the road, because it enables Shell Helix Ultra to test motor oils in extreme conditions. *While Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology motor oils for the racetrack and the road share the same technology platform, the racing formulation is customised to meet the extreme racing conditions. “DTM is a demanding series. The tracks are challenging and competition is fierce. You can only win if the complete package is spot on – and this includes the motor oil. Shell Helix Ultra is designed to protect my engine. It helps me get the maximum out of my car at any time.” – Augusto Farfus, BMW Works Driver Hyundai Shell and Hyundai have been global partners since 2005, with a global aftermarket agreement in place across 67 markets worldwide. As Title Sponsor and Technical Partner, Shell aims to co-engineer a winning edge to Hyundai Motorsport as it competes at the highest level of global rallying at the World Rally Championships (WRC). The WRC series provides the ideal environment to showcase the quality of Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology. Set in over 13 countries, it challenges the cars to compete in extreme environments - from snow and ice to gravel and asphalt in temperatures ranging from -30°C to +40°C. Due to the conditions the car is put through, using reliable products that lubricate and protect the engine without a loss in power or performance is vital to the team’s results. “Since the introduction of Shell helix Ultra motor oil with PurePlus Technology, Shell has helped Hyundai Motorsport to develop an extra 1.5 horsepower, representing an average of six seconds advantage at the end of each rally.” - Michel Nandan, Hyundai Team Principal Maserati Shell Helix Ultra partners with Maserati because they are both made for the same type of people, who love their car and want the very best performance. Shell PurePlus Technology protects the horsepower and maintains the performance of the Italian hot-blooded cars like the day they left the factory. That's why the engine of every Maserati leaving the production line is filled with Shell Helix Ultra Maserati, so they can Drive On. “Shell Helix Ultra Maserati 5W-40 shares our and Shell’s passion for performance and excellence and that why it’s the only motor oil we use for engine factory fill and recommend for service fill.” Gianluca Pivetti, Head of Powertrain Gasoline at Maserati “This motor oil has been developed specifically for Maserati to achieve optimal performance. This is an industry leading example of Shell’s dedication to performance and excellence; values which we share in full in Maserati.” Jacob Nyborg, Head of Marketing at Maserati No matter what the drive, Shell Helix HX8 provides superior protection against engine stress and wear and because Shell Helix HX8 is a modern synthetic made from natural gas; it’s stronger and less volatile at the molecular level than those made from traditional crude. It stays stronger for longer to provide superior protection against wear, up to 32% better resistance to oil degradation than the latest industry standard* and up to 50% less evaporation to help keep your passion for driving alive. *Compared with API SN specification Whether it’s 1,000 degrees or -40C below, Shell Helix HX8 is designed for extreme temperatures. Extreme Heat: Engines can reach extreme temperatures within a few minutes. Oil is lubricating the turbocharger which operates at temperatures up to 1,000°C. High-temperature oxidation can damage molecules, causing the oil to thicken, and reduces its ability to protect the engine. Shell HX8 stays stronger for longer in extreme high temperatures to keep performing and protecting the engine. It provides up to 32% better resistance to oil degradation than the latest industry standard* Extreme Cold: Superior low temperature flow even at -40 degrees. Shell Helix HX8 has a lower viscosity that allows it to flow faster at low temperatures*. It flows up to 3x faster* for easier starting and quicker engine warmup. Oil thickening due to high-temperature degradation can mean slower oil flow at low temperatures. Shell Helix HX8 better resists high-temperature attack, enabling the oil to perform better at low temperatures so you can Drive On. *Compared with API SN specification Ultimate power and performance From Turbos to Super Chargers, if you love driving for the power and performance, Shell Helix HX8 fully synthetic motor oil has you covered. Because our synthetics are made from natural gas our oils are stronger at a molecular level. Making them superior to traditional mineral oils made from crude. The result is enhanced viscosity, reduced friction and lower volatility. Perfect for high performance engines and protecting vital engine parts and horsepower by staying stronger for longer. Tested both on the road and on the track, Shell Helix HX8 helps to protect high-performance engines from harmful deposits that hinder your power and performance to Drive On. No other motor oil cleans your engine better**. Or helps keep your engine closer to factory clean. *Based on 100,000 Km fleet trial **Based on Sequence VG sludge test results using OW-40 Start saving as soon as you start your engine. Shell Helix HX8 has low-viscosity, low-friction formulations, which can result in up to 3% greater fuel economy.* Giving you more money and more miles to drive on and on and on with. *Based on ACEA M 111 fuel economy results compared with the industry reference oil Fully Synthetic Engine Oils For Cars - Shell Helix Shell Helix fully synthetic engine oils are manufactured from 100% synthetic base stock and high-quality additives to achieve higher performance levels than both synthetic technology and mineral oils. Semi Synthetic Engine Oils For Cars - Shell Helix Shell Helix semi-synthetic or '‘synthetic technology' oils make use of both synthetic and mineral base stocks to achieve higher performance levels that can be formulated from mineral car engine oils alone. Mineral Engine Oils For Cars - Shell Helix Shell Helix Mineral engine oil is the fraction of naturally occurring crude oil with the right properties for lubricating engines and helps to keep your car engine clean. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Fully Synthetic Engine Oils For Cars - Shell HelixShell Helix fully synthetic engine oils are manufactured from 100% synthetic base stock and high-quality additives to achieve higher performance levels than both synthetic technology and mineral oils. To these high-quality synthetic base car lubricants, we add our proprietary Active Cleansing Technology to create a lubricant that helps provide superior cleansing and protection for today’s engines. Fully synthetic motor oils help protect your engine. It is not just freezing Arctic conditions or blistering deserts that push oil to extremes. Everyday motorway driving or congested city traffic, where the car repeatedly has to stop and start, can mean severe conditions for engine oil. Shell Helix Ultra’s fully synthetic formulation offers Shell’s maximum protection in very hot and extremely cold climates and severe driving conditions. The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Shell Helix Ultra 5W-40 The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Driving to a sustainable futureOur next generation lubricant is now carbon neutral* When it comes to choosing the right product for your vehicle, we know that sustainability and the environment play an increasingly important role in decision-making. Consumers around the world now expect brands to offer sustainable products, with 74% citing environmental concerns**. At Shell, we want to help you make the best choice – one that is good for your car and helps lower emissions. That’s why we’ve collaborated with our long-term partner, Hyundai Motor Company, to launch a new range of Shell Helix Ultra AH 0W carbon neutral* lubricants – high performance, carbon neutral lubricants, and the latest in Shell’s evolving portfolio of lower emission products and services. Shell Helix Ultra AH 0W carbon neutral not only delivers the ultra-high performance that you have come to expect, it’s also energy efficient, producing lower emissions, thanks to the amount of CO2 that is avoided for every 1 litre of fuel saved***. But that’s just one of the benefits to the environment. We follow a three-step process to make this product carbon neutral. Reduce emissions through sustainable initiatives The sustainable packaging is made from up to 25% PCR (post-consumer resin) / recycled plastic in Shell Helix Ultra 0W bottles. Since 2016, Shell has reduced the carbon intensity of its lubricants manufacturing by over 30%, and over 50% of electricity used in its lubricant blending plants now comes from renewable sources. Quantify emissions from lubricant life cycle We account for all the CO2e emissions created across Shell Helix Ultra AH 0W carbon neutral lifecycle, including raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution, usage and end-of-life treatment. Offset emissions with nature-based carbon credits We compensate the product remaining CO2e emissions with nature-based carbon credits from our global Shell portfolio. Learn more As a part of our ongoing commitment to create more sustainable product options, we invest heavily in lubricants research & development. This leads to innovation that supports our customers’ evolving needs without compromising on quality and performance. We’re proud to have worked with Hyundai to launch Shell Helix Ultra AH 0W carbon neutral, a lubricant that’s guaranteed to deliver higher performance and smoother driving – all while helping you to improve your net carbon footprint. *The CO₂e lifecycle emissions of this product have been offset with verified Nature-Based Carbon Credits. **Source Shell Insights + Kantar, Nov 2019 ***Based on ACEA M111 fuel economy results (delta between the Shell Helix Ultra ECT AH 0W-30 result and that derived from the market viscosity grade average). Semi Synthetic Engine Oils For Cars - Shell HelixShell Helix semi-synthetic or ‘synthetic technology’ engine oils make use of both synthetic and mineral base stocks to achieve higher performance levels that can be formulated from mineral oils alone. What are semi-synthetic engine oils? Semi-synthetic motor oils help protect your engine. Shell Helix semi-synthetic or 'synthetic technology' engine oils make use of both synthetic and mineral base stocks to achieve higher performance levels that can be formulated from mineral oils alone. With our active cleansing technology, Shell Helix synthetic technology engine oils go on cleansing and protecting to help keep your engine feeling like new, and they provide low oil for less frequent top up. Shell Helix HX7 10W-40 The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Shell Helix HX6 5W-30Shell Helix HX6 SP/CF is an advanced formulation that enhances engine performance by helping to protect against sludge build-up and wear. It is suitable for a wide variety of vehicles for everyday driving conditions.With its unique cleansing technology, Shell Helix HX6 SP/CF goes on cleansing and protecting to help keep your engine feeling like new. Available at your nearest Shell Fuel Station, Shell Branded workshop or any retail outlet. The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Shell Helix HX6 Smart Choice for Everyday Driving SYNTHETIC TECHNOLOGY PETROL, DIESEL AND CNG COMPATIBLE BS VI READY Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus technologyToday’s motor vehicles need oil that keeps pace with their changing demands and does more to improve performance and engine life. This is why Shell developed PurePlus Technology, an entirely new way – starting with natural gas – to produce base oils, the main component of motor oils. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology is the first synthetic motor oil designed from natural gas and gives you long lasting engine performance. Shell PurePlus Technology is a revolutionary process that converts natural gas into crystal-clear base oil with virtually none of the impurities found in crude oil. Base oil makes up approximately 75-90% of motor oil and so this is a significant step-change in the composition. Shell PurePlus Technology produces base oil that provides enhanced viscosity, friction and volatility performance compared to more prominently used traditional base oils. This means it helps extend engine life, reduce maintenance costs, reduce oil consumption, enhance fuel economy and enable better engine cleanliness. Exceptional extreme temperature performance Shell Helix Ultra stays stronger for longer in extreme high temperatures to keep performing and protecting the engine. It provides superior resistance to oil degradation, up to 32% better than the latest industry standard*. Thanks to its exceptional low-temperature performance, Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology Plus also provides up to three times faster oil flow at -40°C for easier starting and quicker engine warm up**. *Compared with API SN specification and based on Sequence IIIG oxidation test **Compared with API SN specification and based on ASTM D484 Unsurpassed sludge protection Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology helps to protect high-performance engines from harmful deposits that hinder power and performance. It has proven performance on the road. In field tests, Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology demonstrated superb engine cleanliness. The result, our test vehicles maintained the same fuel economy and performance as they had the day they left the factory*. No other motor oil cleans your engine better**. *Based on 100,000 Km fleet trial **Based on Sequence VG sludge test results using OW-40 Low-evaporation formula helps save time and money Up to 50% less evaporation loss compared to inferior engine oils.* Why does that matter? Because synthetic low-evaporation formulation means you don’t need to top up your oil as often, saving you time and money. *Based on ASTM D5800 NOACK volatility test For better fuel economy The less friction you have between the parts in your engine, the more easily the parts can work and move – and the less fuel you will burn. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology has low-viscosity, low-friction formulations, which can result in up to 3% greater fuel economy.* *Based on ACEA M 111 fuel economy results compared with the industry reference oil. A revolutionary process Turning Natural Gas into a crystal-clear base oil 1. Gasification 2. Synthesis 3. Hydrocracking 4. GTL Products Methane from natural gas reacts with pure oxygen to produce synthesis gas Synthesis gas is fed through a reactor and converted to a liquid called syncrude Syncrude is fed into a hydrocracker to break down molecules and form new ones The new molecules are distilled into GTL products, including PurePlus base oils How it works Shell adds proprietary Active Cleansing Technology to the Shell PurePlus Technology base oil to create Shell Helix Ultra – our most advanced motor oil ever. This unique combination enables Shell Helix Ultra to provide even higher levels of cleansing and protection - meaning that no other motor oil keeps your engine closer to factory clean. Why has Shell developed Pureplus technology? Global engine technology has made huge advances in recent years and car manufacturers demand higher performance levels from motor oils. This has created a general market move towards synthetic premium oils (lower-viscosity oils of consistently high quality). These oils allow drivers to get the most from today’s high-performance engines. Shell is always searching for ways to bring new and improved technology to its motor oil formulations. With a natural gas based technology, a clean and pure starting point, Shell has reimagined and reinvented our synthetic lubricants, and enhanced our products performance. Technical Partner Shell’s relationship with Enzo Ferrari dates back to the 1930s. The very first Ferrari road car to drive out of the factory gates in Maranello, Italy, in 1947 used Shell lubricant. This is still the case today – the engine of every Ferrari leaving the production line in Maranello, from the 458 Italia to Ferrari’s latest innovations, is filled with Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology. Knowing that a product is good enough for a supercar like a Ferrari gives confidence to drivers of all cars that this is motor oil they can trust. Formula One™ is also Shell Helix Ultra’s high-speed, high-pressure testing ground. Shell scientists go to great lengths to optimise the racing motor oils they supply Scuderia Ferrari to provide maximum power and performance on the track* “Our engines are among the most technologically advanced in the world. And they need the oil to match. This is why we choose Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology.” – Scuderia Ferrari “Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology is the only motor oil I trust.” – Kimi Räikkönen, Scuderia Ferrari Driver *While Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology motor oils for the racetrack and the road share the same technology platform, the racing formulation is customised to meet the extreme racing conditions. Premium Technology Partner BMW Motorsports and Shell Helix Ultra is a Technical Partnership - Shell scientists work in close collaboration with the BMW Motorsport engineers; lending in-depth Research & Development. All 8 BMW M4 DTM cars will race on a bespoke blend of Shell Helix Ultra which is also made from Shell PurePlus Technology. Ultimately to benefit the motorist on the road, because it enables Shell to test motor oils in extreme conditions, which helps steer the continual development of next generation motor oils like Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology. “DTM is a demanding series. The tracks are challenging and competition is fierce. You can only win if the complete package is spot on – and this includes the motor oil. Shell Helix Ultra is designed to protect my engine. It helps me get the maximum out of my car at any time.” – Augusto Farfus, BMW Works Driver *While Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology motor oils for the racetrack and the road share the same technology platform, the racing formulation is customised to meet the extreme racing conditions. Technical Partner The engine of every Maserati leaving the production line is filled with Shell Helix Ultra with Shell PurePlus Technology. Shell Helix Ultra and Maserati share an ambitious vision for the future of the global luxury vehicle market, and a commitment to deliver the very best products to drivers worldwide – a high quality motor oil that will do more to improve engine performance, enabling Maserati drivers to relax and enjoy the drive. Shell Helix Ultra also proudly sponsors a car in the Maserati Trofeo World Series. “The launch of the new revolutionary Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology is an important step forward in terms of our motor oil offering for premium vehicle manufacturers like Maserati.” – Cara Tredget, Shell Auto OEM Technology Manager Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Mineral Engine Oils For Cars - Shell HelixMineral motor engine oil is the fraction of naturally occurring crude oil with the right properties for lubricating engines. Shell Helix mineral engine oils help to protect your engine against harmful sludge to help keep engines clean. The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Shell Helix HX5 SN/CF, A3/B3 15W-40 The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Shell Helix HX5 Diesel CH-4 15W-40 The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Shell Helix HX5 SN 10W-30 The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Shell Helix HX5 SN 15W-40 The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in the India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. Shell Helix HX3 20W-50 The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. How car motor oil worksLearn how Shell Helix engine oils work and their importance when maintaining a healthy car. See how easy it is to check your oil, and then explore our FAQ section for our expert help, including advice on car engine oil types. Inside your car engine The main function of motor engine oils is to lubricate the car engine parts so they run smoothly and stay protected against wear and tear, for better performance. Maintaining your engine Using the correct type and amount of oil in your engine will help to improve its performance and prolong its life. Questions answered and popular myths dispelled Synthetic engine oil There are two main types of base oil: mineral and fully synthetic. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Inside your car engineThe main function of motor engine oils is to lubricate the car engine parts so they run smoothly and stay protected against wear and tear, for better performance. How does Shell Helix Ultra work? Normal mineral oils can allow dirt particles to stick together and form sludge on engine surfaces. This can prevent proper lubrication and could lead to premature engine failure. Shell Helix oils’ active cleansing agents are designed to prevent dirt particles sticking together to form sludge. For example, Shell Helix Ultra removes up to five times as much sludge compared with a normal mineral oil (API SG/CD). Maintaining your engineUsing the correct type and amount of oil in your engine will help to improve its performance and prolong its life. You also need to monitor your engine over time to maintain its condition. Checking your oil and battery levels Incorrect oil levels can cause serious damage in your car’s engine, so it’s important to check your oil level regularly. Changing your oil You don't always need to change your car's oil entirely. Sometimes you will only need to perform a top-up to keep your car running smoothly. Reading the signs to maintain engine health A new noise, leak or smell could be telling you that something is wrong with your car. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Checking your oil and battery levelsIncorrect oil levels can cause serious damage in your car’s engine, so it’s important to check your oil level regularly. This is very easy to do and just takes a few minutes. We recommend keeping a 1 litre bottle of oil in your car so you can top up whenever necessary. How to check your oil First, choose the right oil for your car by checking your car manufacturer’s recommendation. Alternatively, try our quick and simple Shell LubeMatch tool. Ensure that your car is parked on level ground, with the hand brake on and the engine off. Open the bonnet (there’s usually a lever under the dashboard) and prop it open with its support. Avoid touching the hot engine. Allow one minute for the oil to settle. Put on some protective gloves and pull out the dipstick (which you’ll find protruding from the engine block – recognisable by its looped end). Wipe it clean with a paper towel and replace it fully for several seconds. Then remove it again to study the oil level. The oil level should fall somewhere between the minimum and maximum marks on the dipstick and may need topping up. See the diagram for an indication of how much oil to add. Amounts are approximate and for guidance only. Remove the oil filler cap to top up the engine with the appropriate amount of Shell Helix oil, preferably using a funnel. The scale on the bottle will indicate how much has been used. Repeat steps 2 and 3 to check the new level. Replace the dipstick and the oil filler cap securely. Clean any finger marks from the bonnet and wipe any oil from your hands with a moist towel, disposing of any waste materials in an appropriate place. When you notice that your oil level is below the minimum mark, find out how many kilometres have passed since the last oil change. If you’re not sure refer to your handbook for recommended oil-change intervals or if your mileage is above 15000km, it’s advisable to perform a complete oil change. If the mileage is between 4000km and 15000km you will only need to top up your oil. You can find out how to change your oil here. There may be a technical problem if your mileage is less than 4000km and the oil level is low. Top up and start measuring the level on a weekly basis, or contact your local mechanic for further advice. If the oil has white specks in it, the engine coolant is mixing with the engine oil because of an internal engine problem, have your car inspected. For guidance on how often to change your oil, be sure to consult your handbook for the recommended oil-change interval. To find the right oil for your car try our quick and simple Shell LubeMatch tool. Checking your battery fluid level (this only applies to unsealed batteries) Look for the battery and check its appearance. It should be clean, particularly around the terminals. You may have a sealed-for-life battery that will make this check unnecessary. If you do have to top-up the battery, be careful – it contains sulphuric acid, so do not splash the fluid on yourself or the car bodywork. First, check if you have a sealed-for-life battery that is permanently sealed. Most of these batteries will feature a built-in hydrometer that displays the current condition of the battery cells. If you do have this type, there is no need to refill the battery. Next, remove the positive and negative terminal cables from the battery. Clean the terminals and post of any acid or corrosive build-up and then reattach the cables. Use a screwdriver to pry open the removable caps on top of the battery and put them to one side. Now take a look at the fluid level in each cell. The fluids should be level with the filler ring, approximately 1 inch below the top of the battery. If they are low, use a funnel to top each cell up with distilled water. It must be distilled water otherwise impurities could damage your battery. After each cell is filled to the filler ring, replace the caps making sure they are sealed tightly. Check a week later to see if the levels have reduced. If they have, you may have a problem like a crack in the casing. Get your battery inspected by a mechanic to avoid any problems. To summarise: Check if you have a sealed-for-life battery. If you do, stop here. Remove positive and negative terminal cables, clean terminals, then replace cables. Use screwdriver to remove caps. Check fluids and top up if necessary with distilled water. Replace caps tightly. Courtesy of ehow: http://www.ehow.com/how_7802577_measure-fluid-level-car-battery.html Other levels Refer to the car’s user manual on how to check and top-up the brake fluid and engine coolant levels. Regularly checking these levels may not change your car’s appearance but is a rejuvenating experience for your vehicle. Changing your oilYou don't always need to change your car's oil entirely. Sometimes you will only need to perform a top-up to keep your car running smoothly. When you need to change your oil, you can do it yourself – it doesn't take long and is easy with the right tools. Otherwise contact your local workshop and they can do it for you. How to change your oil yourself Changing your car oil is easier than it sounds and could also save you money in the long term. It shouldn't take longer than 45 minutes – just make sure that you follow your manufacturer's specific instructions and safety directions. Firstly, choose the ideal oil for your car from the Shell Helix range by clicking here or using our Shell LubeMatch tool here. Then check you have the necessary tools. You'll need: Shell Helix Engine Oil (4 or 5 litres - check owner's manual) New oil filter - check owner's manual Safety glasses and rubber gloves Plastic container and funnel Car jack and jack stands Drain plug socket wrench Paper towels and a rag Oil filter wrench What you have to do: 1. Prepare your car The car should be on a level surface with the parking brake on and engine off, leaving the oil to cool for a few minutes. If you need space under the car, jack it up and use jack stands to support it. Jacks on their own are very unstable – never get under your car without using jack stands. You could also put something underneath the engine to prevent spilling oil onto the ground. 2. Unscrew the oil cap Locate the oil cap (check with the manual to locate it) and unscrew it. This is very important, as a vacuum will not allow all the oil to drain out. 3. Locate the oil drain plug Get underneath the car and locate the oil drain plug. This is a lone bolt at the bottom of the oil sump. 4. Place the container Place a container big enough to hold the oil beneath the oil drain plug and unscrew the plug, being careful not to let it fall into the container. Do not come in contact with the oil – it can be extremely hot. 5. Drain out the old oil Allow all the oil to drain out. This can take several minutes. 6. Locate the oil filter Locate the old oil filter with the help of your car’s owner manual. It should be identical to the one you are replacing it with. 7. Remove the old oil filter Turn the filter wrench anti-clockwise to loosen the oil filter. The filter may be full of oil so take care not to spill any. 8. Prepare the new filter Clean up the filter seat on the engine and place a light coating of oil on the gasket of the new filter. 9. Install the new filter Carefully screw the new filter into place by hand, making sure it is not over-tight. Screw back in the oil drain plug and tighten it with the wrench. 10. Fill up with oil Using the funnel, carefully fill the engine with Shell Helix, avoiding spillages. Measure the oil level with the dipstick after every two litres filled. 11. Check the level is correct When you have reached the correct level, replace the oil cap. Turn on the engine for ten minutes and then off again. Check the oil level with the dipstick once again - if the level is low, add more oil. 12. Clean up Clean up all oil spillages on your engine and check for any leaks from the drain plug. 13. Properly dispose of the old oil and filter Used oil is highly toxic and must never be disposed of with domestic waste. It's illegal to pour used oil into the sewage network. Put your used oil in a sealed container and label it. Then take it to an auto repair centre, service station or recycling centre. Most places will accept used oil for free. Reading the signs to maintain engine healthA new noise, leak or smell could be telling you that something is wrong with your car. These signs could lead to expensive problems, so if you see or smell something, don’t ignore it. Things to look out for Smoke from your exhaust If there is smoke coming out of your exhaust, make a note of whether it is black, blue or white. If the smoke only occurs when the car is moving, ask a friend to drive behind you and describe the smoke. This will prevent you being distracted while driving. Black smoke is caused by raw fuel being burnt in the exhaust. This can be the result of a badly adjusted carburettor (or fuel injectors, if fitted) or a blocked air filter. If you only get black smoke first thing in the morning, it is likely that the choke or the fuel-enrichment section of your fuel injection system need adjustment. Your local franchise dealer will confirm the cause and fix the problem for you. Blue smoke indicates that oil is being burnt. Unfortunately, continuous blue smoke is likely to be expensive as it indicates the piston rings or cylinder walls are damaged. If all you get is a quick puff of blue smoke in the morning, then the problem is probably bad valve guides or valve-guide seals. This is less serious but still needs prompt attention from your franchise dealer. White smoke could be due to coolant or antifreeze that is either leaking, or being forced into the combustion chambers and being burnt. A leaking head gasket, broken head or damaged cylinder wall are the most likely causes of the problem, but ask your franchise dealer for their opinion before embarking on a repair. Leaks Being aware when you approach your car and keeping an eye on your mirrors while driving can often give you the first indication that something is wrong with your car. If you are not confident about identifying or fixing the problem yourself, discuss your observations with your local franchise dealer. You should give them as much information as you can to help identify the cause quickly. If you spot a leak make a note of whether the car was parked on a slope, where under the car you noticed the leak and the colour of the fluid. For example, green fluid under the front of the car is likely to be engine coolant. Have a look at the temperature gauge to check the car is not overheating and ask your local franchise dealer to find and mend the leak. Strange smells Unusual smells can come from the car in front or your environment, but if the smell is consistent it may well come from your car. When describing the smell to your franchise dealer try to remember if it was: a sweet smell (likely to be caused by burning engine coolant) acrid, like burnt plastic (likely to be caused by electrical faults) like burning rubber (likely to be caused by overheating brakes or clutch). Whatever the cause, discuss the problem with your franchise dealer. Unusual sounds A car can make numerous sounds, from knocks and rattles to grinds, squeaks and hisses. Try to find a term that describes the noise you hear and whether the noise is intermittent or continuous. If it is intermittent, make a note of whether it occurred when the engine was hot or cold, whether you were accelerating or driving at a constant speed and if there were any unusual instrument readings at the time. Your franchise dealer will appreciate the additional information and it will help reduce the time needed to solve the problem. Questions answered and popular myths dispelledOil is a complicated subject but here we dispel myths, answer common questions and offer some oil-changing tips. Frequently asked questions To help you understand oil better, here are the answers to the questions we’re most frequently asked. Myths about car oil A lot of confusion about oil stems from popular myths which are mistaken for fact. Find out here whether what you ‘know’ is true or not. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Synthetic engine oilThere are two main types of base oil: mineral and fully synthetic. Engine oils labelled as “part-” or “semi-synthetic” or “synthetic technology” contain a mixture of these two types. Why synthetic is better than ‘natural’ Natural products are traditionally considered to be ‘better’ than synthetic ones. In the case of engine oil, however, Shell scientists have succeeded in developing a range of synthetic products with better properties than their natural counterparts – and fewer of their shortcomings. Synthetic base oils give enhanced performance because they are manufactured using advanced chemical processes, so their molecular structure and hence, their properties, can be closely controlled. For example, fully synthetic oils like Shell Helix Ultra are designed to flow more easily at start-up temperatures (which is when most wear occurs). They are more resistant to heat and more easily protected by antioxidant additives (oxidation is a natural degradation process that occurs in oil over time). They are also less volatile than mineral oils. For example, compared with a normal API SG/CD mineral oil, a fully synthetic engine oil such as Shell Helix Ultra is found to deliver: Up to five times better cleansing. Up to three times more protection. Less than half as much engine wear. Advantages Key advantages of synthetic engine oils include: Higher purity and quality than mineral base oils – which means fewer unwanted components including sulphur-containing compounds and reactive or unstable hydrocarbons. More uniform and consistent molecular composition – which reduces the fluid friction levels. Can be reliably tailored to meet the requirements of modern engine manufacturers (requirements that oils like Shell Helix Ultra don’t just meet but often exceed). Shell Helix synthetic oils are designed to perform under the more extreme conditions encountered in modern engines. Why do synthetic oils perform so well? Properties of synthetic oils Resulting benefits Low overall viscosity and reduced friction in the fluid means superior flow properties. This results in improved engine efficiency and fuel economy, and lower oil temperatures. Thanks to the oil’s high viscosity index, the viscosity is affected less by temperature changes than with normal mineral oils. The oil does not become too thick when cold, or too thin when hot. This reduces engine wear at temperature extremes. Less viscosity modifier is needed, which leads to lower levels of deposits. In high temperatures, viscosity and shear resistance are retained. This means better engine protection at high speeds or when heavily loaded. In low temperatures, oils do not thicken unduly. This means easier starting with less strain on the battery. Oil circulates quickly around the engine, giving protection from the outset. The engine warms up faster and reaches optimum performance sooner, which improves fuel economy. Low volatility means fewer volatile components in the oil and so less evaporation or burn-off. This results in lower oil consumption, fewer top-ups and less oil thickening, which helps to maintain fuel economy and reduce engine wear. High oxidation resistance means that the oil molecules are less likely to breakdown or degrade, especially at higher temperatures. This keeps the engine cleaner through reduced formation of sludge and corrosive acids, fewer engine deposits and less oil thickening – all helping to maintain fuel economy and reduce engine wear. Frequently asked questionsTo help you understand oil better, here are the answers to the questions we’re most frequently asked.Myths about car oilA lot of confusion about oil stems from popular myths which are mistaken for fact. Find out here whether what you ‘know’ is true or not. Myths about engine oil Myth 1: “If a small amount of oil is good, a lot is better.” Overfilling the crankcase with oil is bad. It can cause excessive heat owing to the increased resistance, and thus shorten the oil’s life. In addition, a lot of oil will be splashed into the cylinders and cause excessive oil burning, increasing the combustion chamber deposits that can cause operational problems. There is a popular belief that four litres of oil is just right for a four-cylinder car. This is not always the case. Check you car manual for the exact crankcase capacity as you may be able to save some oil for topping up. Remember to fill the crankcase to the level indicated on the dipstick – never more, never less. Myth 2: “An engine oil that turns black is no good.” On the contrary, an engine oil that does not turn black is a sign that the oil is not working. Modern engine oils contain detergent-dispersant additives that keep engine internal parts clean by removing carbon deposits and maintaining them in harmless suspension in the oil. It is better to have the carbon deposits in the oil so they can be drained off than to have them left as deposits in the engine where they could do the most damage. Myth 3: “All engine oils are the same.” Engine oils differ in their physical characteristics, additive technology and additive content. Different oils are formulated to meet various specifications. The selection of a suitable engine oil will depend on the engine manufacturer’s recommendation and the type of service the oil will be subjected to. Using the right type of oil can be more economical in the long run. To find the right oil for you, try our Shell LubeMatch tool here. Myth 4: “Additives can boost engine oil and engine performance.” Adding commercially available additives to engine oil is like adding sugar to your soft drink – you do not need it. Premium engine oils have been formulated with all the additives necessary to ensure optimum engine performance. Additives cannot reduce oil consumption in an old engine or restore the engine protection properties of an old oil. In fact, additives may upset the oil chemistry and create new problems. It is safer and more economical to use quality tested and ‘packaged’ premium oils. Do not waste your money on additives. Myth 5: “Oil never wears out.” Oil does wear out. The primary enemy of oil is heat. At high operating temperatures, oil begins to oxidise and thicken. Furthermore, engine oils can become laden with excessive carbon soot, water, acids, dust, metal particles and oxidised materials. These can cause plugging of oil filters and passageways or interfere with the proper action of some critical engine parts. Change the oil regularly at the recommended oil-change interval. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protects at high temperatures Riding on a hot day can be a challenge. With Shell Advance you can be confident that you can outride the heat, because Shell Advance has been formulated to perform 25% better at high temperatures than a leading competitor. Smooth ride is defined as (1) reduced noise and vibration due to shear stable lubricant, (2) smooth engine operation and performance as lubricant retains viscosity and keeps engine clean Retains horsepower When you’re on the road you want your bike to perform at an optimum level. Our field trials have demonstrated that with Shell Advance in your engine, there is no power loss throughout your journey All Claims are based on field trial results and/or lab based data (controlled environment) All existing claims’ disclaimers will also be applied Improves fuel economy When you’re on a ride you want to be able to go further for longer. Shell Advance Ultra improves fuel economy by 5kmpl over a mineral oil, giving you the confidence to always go the extra mile. All Claims are based on field trial results and/or lab based data (controlled environment) All existing claims’ disclaimers will also be applied Thoroughly cleans your pistons The cleaner your bike’s engine, the better its performance. Shell Advance cleans pistons 33% better than a leading competitor, so you can be confident wherever your next journey takes you. Smooth ride is defined as (1) reduced noise and vibration due to shear stable lubricant, (2) smooth engine operation and performance as lubricant retains viscosity and keeps engine clean All Claims are based on field trial results and/or lab based data (controlled environment) All existing claims’ disclaimers will also be applied Strengthens engine against wear and damage Wear and tear can be critical to your bike’s performance. With Shell Advance, your bike will be protected against engine wear 36% better than API limits. So you can focus on the road and outride anything. Complete-Protection is defined as keeping pistons clean, protection against engine wear and protection at high temperatures All Claims are based on field trial results and/or lab based data (controlled environment) All existing claims’ disclaimers will also be applied Shell’s Technical Partnership with Ducati Corse Shell’s Technical Partnership with Ducati Corse began in 1999 when Shell supported Ducati in the Superbike World Championship. In 2003, the multiple title-winning collaboration began contesting the MotoGP World Championship together. The partnership has since gone on to become one of the strongest and most successful within the motorcycle world. Shell’s involvement in premier class motorcycle racing has helped develop the Shell Advance lubricant and Shell V-Power fuel for the road, so that bikers all over the world can benefit from the cutting-edge technology developed on the track. The transfer of knowledge gained from the track to Shell’s products for the road is central to the Technical Partnership with Ducati, as MotoGP provides the most extreme test bed for Shell’s products. 4 Stroke Bike Engine Oils - Shell Advance Shell Advance 4-stroke motorcycle oils are a special mix of top-quality synthetic, semi-synthetic, or mineral base oils. 2 Stroke Engine Oils - Shell Advance Shell Advance 2-stroke motorcycle oils help to clean and protect, as well as lower exhaust smoke production. Find the right 2-stroke engine oil here. 4 Stroke Scooter Engine Oils - Shell Advance Shell Advance 4-stroke scooter oils provide excellent protection and high oil-performance reliability. 4 Stroke Bike Engine Oils - Shell AdvanceShell Advance 4-stroke motorcycle oils are a special mix of top-quality synthetic, semi-synthetic, or mineral base oils. Shell Advance 4-stroke motorcycle oils range Our range of 4-stroke engine oils are formulated to cool, clean and protect your motorcycle, improving engine life. Shell Advance AX5Shell Advance AX3 The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in India. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our India product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch. 2 Stroke Engine Oils - Shell AdvanceShell Advance 2-stroke motorcycle oils help to clean and protect, as well as lower exhaust smoke production. Find the right 2-stroke engine oil here. Shell Advance 2-stroke motorcycle oils range To help clean and protect your 2-stroke engine, as well as lower exhaust smoke production, take a look at our range of oils below. Shell Advance VSX 24 Stroke Scooter Engine Oils - Shell AdvanceShell Advance 4-stroke scooter oils provide excellent protection and high oil-performance reliability. Shell Advance 4-stroke scooter oils range Our 4-stroke scooter oils provide excellent protection and high oil-performance reliability. Choose the oil that’s best for your scooter. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell RimulaShell Rimula is proud to present best-in-class synthetic oil range meeting API CK4 requirements. It is formulated with Dynamic Protection Plus and Low SAPS Adaptive technology that provides superior engine protection and fuel savings. It is backward compliant so that every trucker can benefit from this high-performance oil. High annual savings Up to Rs 40,000 in fuel and maintenance costs with Rimula R5 10W-30. Up to Rs 24,000 in fuel and maintenance costs with Rimula R5 10W-40. Greater oil drain interval Get oil drain interval of up to 1 Lac Kms so that truck runs for longer with less stoppages for maintenance and oil change Thank you! A big thanks to truck drivers and healthcare professionals across the country for driving India forward in such tough times and ensuring the supply of essential services to all. Advanced Multi-Grade Oils - Shell Rimula Shell Rimula advanced multi-grade oils have been developed for the latest on-highway and off-highway vehicles. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Shell Rimula fuel economy oilsShell Lubricants continues to be a leader in the development of fuel economy oils, providing real fuel savings that can help lower your operation and maintenance costs. If enhancing fuel economy is a priority for you, we recommend the following lubricants below.Advanced Multi-Grade Oils - Shell RimulaShell Rimula oils developed for the latest on-highway and off-highway vehicles, meeting latest Industry and OEM approval requirements.Shell Rimula R4 L Shell Rimula R4 L Shell Rimula R4 L uses the latest generation technology to deliver significantly improved resistance to wear, deposits and oxidation. Based on high performance Group II base oils, it is one of the most advanced 15W-40 oil technologies available – and suitable for virtually all vehicles. That means that it’s versatile enough to bring you the convenience of a single oil, suitable for virtually all engine ages and vehicle types. Protective power Shell Rimula R4 L provides operators with one of the highest levels of protection achievable in a conventional viscosity grade engine oil. In addition, the low SAPS formulation helps to protect the catalysts and diesel particulate filters. Low emissions and reduced costs Protecting the performance of your exhaust emissions control systems is not only important to ensure that your vehicles comply with legislative requirements, but also to ensure efficient operations. For example, blocked diesel particulate filters (DPF) can actually increase fuel consumption. Shell Rimula R4 L is formulated with reduced levels of ash and sulphur to help maintain the efficiency of the latest and future vehicle technologies. Extra life Shell Rimula R4 L is formulated to give exceptional resistance to breakdown through heat and mechanical stress to help ensure continuous protection even under the most severe conditions. The action powerful antioxidants included in Shell Rimula R4 L are further enhanced through the use of high quality Group II base oils to provide increased resistance to breakdown by heat, compared to previous generation oils (e.g. API CI-4/ACEA E7). In common with other Shell top-tier heavy-duty engine oils, Shell Rimula R4 L uses highly stable viscosity modifiers. These specially designed molecules resist being torn apart in the high stress areas of the engine such as valve and gear trains. This means that the oil retains its viscosity better than many other oils on the market, providing more consistent and reliable lubrication and protection. Improved protection Shell Rimula R4 L provides considerably higher levels of wear and deposit control than previous generation oils. In the Cummins ISM engine test* Shell Rimula R4 L not only passes the requirements but shows visibly less wear than other oils that also meet the requirements of the test. Shell Rimula R4 L provides significantly higher levels of wear protection than previous generation oils, exceeding the critical wear requirements in many areas, such as in the Cummins ISM test* with visibly less wear than passing oils. *Test included in API CJ-4, ACEA E9 (proposed) and Volvo and Mercedes-Benz low-SAPS specifications Virtually sludge-free Shell Rimula R4 L and its highly active ash-less dispersants deliver exceptional cleanliness and deposit control. This has been proven in on-highway tests of over 25 million kilometers. For example, in Mercedes-Benz engines it showed virtually no sludge in rocker covers or oil sumps – allowing for more efficient engine operation and lower maintenance costs. Should you use Shell Rimula R4 L? • Suitable for virtually all on-highway truck, bus and coach applications including US 2007, Euro 2,3,4 and 5 applications. Thanks to the exceptionally wide range of vehicle maker approvals, Rimula R4 L can provide a single-oil lubrication solution for fleets with mixed vehicle makes, providing logistical and inventory benefits. • An excellent solution for the lubrication of medium and light diesel-powered commercial vehicles, especially those fitted with diesel particulate filters. • Meets the requirements of leading agricultural and construction equipment/engine makers such as Caterpillar, Cummins, Deutz and MTU. Specifications and approvals SAE Viscosity Grade: 15W-40 API: CJ-4, CI-4+, CI-4, CH-4, CG -4, CF-4, ACEA: E7, E9; Caterpillar: ECF-2, ECF-3; Cummins: CES 20077, 81; DDC: 93K218; Deutz: DQC-III; MACK: EO-O PP; MAN: 3275; MB Approval: 228.3, 228.31; MTU: Category 2; Volvo: VDS-4, VDS-3. Shell Rimula R4 Shell Rimula R4 technology is designed to protect modern engines with turbochargers, intercooling and exhaust gas recirculation. From the high-pressure contacts in the valve train to the extreme temperatures of the pistons and rings, Shell Rimula R4 adapts to all the conditions within your engine, and helps you to minimise your maintenance and operating costs by providing a versatile one-oil solution for modern fleets. Protective power A highly stable dual-function additive component provides extra protection against oil thickening within the high soot and contamination levels found in modern low emission engines. This ensures that the oil continues to flow and protect even under heavy-duty operations found in US 2004, Euro 3 and Euro 4 turbocharged engines. Active technology for better protection Shell Rimula R4 contains dual-function molecules that work with conventional additives to enhance performance. They do this by helping to capture soot found in high power modern engines, for wear and deposit control. Unique active technology The performance benefits of the unique combination of dispersants and detergents boosted by the use of the dual-function additive component are seen in enhanced engine cleanliness and viscosity control compared to previous generation oils (API CH-4/ACEA E5). Improved Cleanliness: In the ASTM Caterpillar 1R engine test, Shell Rimula R4 technology shows clear visible improvements compared to previous generation oils. Better flow: the advanced dispersant systems help keep the oil flowing properly, resisting thickening caused by build up of soot. In the Mack T8E test, Shell Rimula R4 clearly out-performs the minimum requirements for ACEA and API specifications by up to 75% and demonstrates improvements compared to a typical API CH-4 technology. Engine wear: in the Mack T10 and Cummins M-11 EGR tests, Shell Rimula R4 exceeds the API CI-4 and ACEA E7 limits for piston ring and crosshead wear. In particular, it exceeds the crosshead wear of API CI-4 requirements by up to 50%. Visibly Lower Wear: in the Cummins M-11 EGR wear test, the difference between Shell Rimula R4 and passing API CI-4 oil is visible in the crosshead wear scars. High power use Lasting over 30% longer than competitors in laboratory oxidation tests, Shell Rimula R4 is proven to resist breakdown even under high temperature. Combined with its proven performance, delivering up to 30% lower iron wear in the real world conditions of the Australian road-trains, Shell Rimula provides the Energised Protection your engine needs. Should you use Shell Rimula R4? With its wide range of approvals and specifications from many of the world’s leading engine makers, Shell Rimula R4 is an excellent choice for on-highway logistics, general haulage and public transport operators. Suitable for a wide range of heavy-duty engine applications. Suitable for Euro 2, 3 and certain Euro 4 engine technologies. With its excellent protection against wear and deposits, Shell Rimula R4 is ideal for a wide range of high power heavy-duty diesel engine applications where resistance to increased heat and stress is required. For vehicles fitted with the latest emissions control technology such as diesel particulate traps, we recommend the use of our low-emissions products such as Shell Rimula R4 L, R6 LM or LME. Specifications and approvals SAE Viscosity Grade: 15W-40 API CI-4, CG-4, CF-4, CF; ACEA E7, E5; Global DHD-1, Cummins CES 20071, 72, 76, 77, 78; Cat ECF-1-A; DDC 93K215; Mack EO-M, EO-M+; MAN 3275; MB Approval 228.3; Renault Trucks RLD-2; Volvo VDS-3 Thank you!A big thanks to truck drivers and healthcare professionals across the country for driving India forward in such tough times and ensuring the supply of essential services to all. Stay home, stay safe is the mantra for all during these tough times. However, there is still a set of people who are going about their duty on a daily basis, driving the country forward and ensuring the supply of essential services to all of us so that we can stay safe with our loved ones. These include truck drivers who are ensuring we get a steady supply of groceries, vegetables and milk; healthcare professionals like doctors, ambulance drivers and paramedics who are taking care of the people falling sick; shopkeepers and grocers who are doing everything they can to keep their shelves stocked ; and those working at banks who are ensuring that people continue to have access to funds. With the country in the throes of a lockdown, many of these truckers while going about their duty, have also been stranded a long way away from home and at Shell, we wanted to take this opportunity to say a big, heartfelt thank you to them. We decided to create a care package with food and hygiene essentials and reach out to these people wherever they may be stuck – be it Transport Nagars, toll nakas or highways. Through this activity, we are reaching out to truckers and ambulance drivers in Delhi, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Chennai and Bangalore. We are working with Vision Spring to conduct this in Delhi-NCR and with our trusted partners – our distributors – in Chennai and Bangalore. This is a small gesture and our way of saying Thank you to a community that has helped drive the country forward and maintain essential services even during such extraordinary times. Shell Rimula R6 LME Low emissions, maintenance saving and energy saving – ideal for trucking and public transport applications. Shell Rimula R2 40 No matter how hot, cold, steep, dusty, muddy or extended your operations, you need to know that your oil will protect your engine under all conditions. Shell Rimula fuel economy oils Shell Rimula fuel economy oils continues to be a leader in the development of fuel economy oils, providing fuel savings that lower your operation and maintenance costs. Advanced Multi-Grade Oils - Shell Rimula Shell Rimula advanced multi-grade oils have been developed for the latest on-highway and off-highway vehicles. Shell Rimula R6 LME Shell Rimula R6 LME Shell Rimula R6 LME uses a unique technology that adapts chemically and physically to meet the changing needs of the engine. It can contribute to efficient transport operations through: helping to control emissions. long drain intervals and less waste oil. lower fuel usage. Protective power More than just reliable lubrication, Shell Rimula R6 LME uses a three-fold approach to delivering protection: synthetic base-oil technology. unique additive technology. an exclusive anti-wear booster system. These three factors combine to deliver outstanding performance, long drain intervals and fuel saving capability without compromising durability. Shell Rimula R6 LME provides even greater protection against wear and deposits than previous generation oils (e.g. ACEA E4/MB 228.5 oils) and the low-SAPS formulation protects the exhaust system catalysts and filters found on the latest vehicles. Your protection – our experience Developed by our technologists, the special anti-wear booster provides extra protection against wear in highly stressed areas of the engine. Low emissions Protecting the performance of your exhaust emissions control systems is not only important to ensure that your vehicles comply with legislative requirements, but also to ensure efficient operations. For example, blocked diesel particulate filters (DPF) can actually increase fuel consumption. Shell Rimula R6 LME is formulated with reduced levels of ash and sulphur to help maintain the efficiency of the latest and future vehicle technologies. Exceeding the requirements for limiting the sulphur and phosphorus content for Mercedes-Benz, MAN and other OEMs, Shell Rimula R6 LME has been tested and proven to protect. Energy savings Shell Rimula R6 LME can make a positive contribution to the fuel consumption of your vehicles and the costs of your business. Developed in close co-operation with leading engine and vehicle makers, it not only delivers fuel economy benefits, but also meets the durability and performance demands of the latest low-emissions equipment. Independently validated fuel saving Don’t just take our word for it. In trials carried out on a fleet of trucks operating for a leading UK supermarket, customers confirmed that Shell Rimula R6 LME realised up to 2.0% fuel savings over a 100,000 km oil drain interval compared with a typical 10W-40 oil*. *Full copy of report available on request Maintenance savings Shell Rimula R6 LME was developed in conjunction with leading engine makers and delivers exceptional piston cleanliness in the latest engines. Approved for long-drain application by Mercedes-Benz and others, Shell Rimula R6 LME exceeded the piston cleanliness of the reference oil by 25% in the MB OM501 engine test. Shell Rimula R6 LME has been tested to help ensure long engine life and protection throughout the oil maintenance interval. Should you use Shell Rimula R6 LME? Shell Rimula R6 LME is suitable for use in many on-highway, heavy-duty applications. It’s particularly suited for fleets with mixed Euro 2, 3, 4 and 5 engine types and for a wide range of trucking and public transportation applications in modern, low-emission vehicles from Mercedes-Benz, MAN, DAF and others. Shell Rimula R6 LME exceeds the performance requirements of industry specifications such as ACEA E6 and E7, and is ideal for vehicles fitted with DPFs. Specifications and approvals SAE viscosity grade: 5W-30 ACEA: E6, E7; Cummins: CES 20077; MAN: M3477; MB Approval: 228.51. The product specifications listed above may vary from time to time and may not all be available for sale in the United Kingdom. To obtain a specific recommendation for your vehicle from our UK product portfolio, please use our free online oil recommendation tool, Shell Lubematch . How to use R6 LME oils safely Shell Rimula R6 LME oils are unlikely to present any significant health or safety hazards as long as you use them properly in the recommended application. You should avoid contact with skin and wear impervious gloves with used oil. If the oil does come into contact with your skin, wash immediately with soap and water. To dispose of used oil, please take it to an authorised collection point. Do not pour it into the earth, drains or water. Shell Rimula R3 X Shell Rimula R3 X Shell Rimula R3 X Energised Protection oils provide triple action protection against wear, deposits and heat, continuously adapting to the needs of your engine for protection in on- and off-highway applications. Protective power Using modern multi-component chemistry, Shell Rimula R3 X gives all-round protection for turbo and non-turbocharged engines. Improved wear resistance With over 18 million kilometers of documented on-road performance, Shell Rimula R3 X has demonstrated: In the lab: up to 40% lower cross-head wear in the industry standard Cummins M-11 HST test (see chart). On the road: up to 35% lower iron wear, measured in used oil samples from heavy-duty haulage operations in Caterpillar engines. Exceptional deposit control To ensure efficient operation and long engine life, it is essential that your engine is clean inside. Shell Rimula R3 X has been shown to keep engines cleaner than previous generation oils. Increased heat resistance Hard-working engines generate lots of heat. Shell Rimula R3 X has been developed to resist breakdown by heat, helping to ensure continued protection under heavy-duty service. The oil exceeds the requirements of key industry high temperature oxidation tests* by up to 40%, providing a rugged safety margin for all but the most severe operations. *including ASTM Sequence III and CEC PDSC test procedures Should you use Shell Rimula R3 X oil? With its wide range of on-highway truck maker approvals, Shell Rimula R3 X is particularly suitable for use in heavy duty bus, coach and truck applications, including modern turbocharged engines. Shell Rimula R3 X has been proven in rugged off-highway applications, ranging from remote mining and quarrying operations to use in a wide range of agricultural machinery. Shell Rimula R2 Extra Shell Rimula R2 Extra Shell Rimula R2 Extra Energised Protection oil uses proven combinations of additives that adapt to your engine, keeping it clean by carrying away dirt. Reacting to the needs of your engine, the oil releases its protective energy when necessary, to help ensure reliable and consistent protection against deposits and wear, whilst resisting thickening by heat. Approved by leading engine makers, Shell Rimula R2 Extra is suitable for use in most heavy-duty applications including turbocharged engines. Protective power Shell Rimula R2 Extra provides additional protection against deposits needed for turbocharged and non-turbocharged, heavy-duty diesel engines. Extra deposit control To deliver the extra protection required in higher power or turbocharged engines, Shell Rimula R2 Extra contains up to 20% more active deposit control additives than more basic oils such as those meeting API CF-4. This performance is demonstrated through meeting the engine tests required by leading engine makers, Mercedes-Benz, MAN and Volvo. Should you use Shell Rimula R2 Extra oil? Provides robust protection against deposit formation in many turbocharged engines from Mercedes-Benz, Volvo and others, where temperatures and power are higher than in non-turbocharged engines. Ideal for short and long distance haulage. Suitable for heavy-duty bus and coach operators with older turbocharged engines and in high temperature operations. Approved by major bus manufacturers such as Mercedes-Benz, MAN and Volvo. Provides versatile high performance protection for many agricultural applications including higher powered, turbocharged engines. How to use R2 Extra oils safely Shell Rimula R2 Extra oils are unlikely to present any significant health or safety hazards as long as you use them properly in the recommended application. You should avoid contact with skin and wear impervious gloves with used oil. If the oil does come into contact with your skin, wash immediately with soap and water. To dispose of used oil, please take it to an authorised collection point. Do not pour it into the earth, drains or water. Shell Rimula R2 CNGReliable lubrication for CNG enginesShell Rimula R1 MultiReliable LubricationShell Rimula T3Heavy duty diesel engine oilShell Rimula T2Heavy Duty Diesel Engine OilShell Rimula R2 40Tough, long-lasting action Shell Rimula R2 40 Shell Rimula R2 Energised Protection oils use proven combinations of additives that react to the needs of your engine. They feature an enhanced acid-control system for added protection and long life. Each dedicated additive releases its protective energy when needed, to help ensure reliable and consistent protection against deposits and wear, and tough, long-lasting action. Protective power More than just reliable lubrication, Shell Rimula R2 provides tough, long lasting action for most heavy-duty, non-turbocharger applications. Extra acid control To deliver tough, long-lasting action, Shell Rimula R2 is formulated with up to 33% more acid and corrosion control components compared to basic quality API CF oils. How to use R2 oils safely Shell Rimula R2 oils are unlikely to present any significant health or safety hazards as long as you use them properly in the recommended application. You should avoid contact with skin and wear impervious gloves with used oil. If the oil does come into contact with your skin, wash immediately with soap and water. To dispose of used oil, please take it to an authorised collection point. Do not pour it into the earth, drains or water. Shell Rimula R2 engine oils are suitable for use in: • Many medium and heavy-duty trucking operations where non-turbocharged engines are used – especially where medium or higher fuel sulphur levels are found. • Stop-start operations such as city bus applications using non-turbocharged engines. • The enhanced acid control system in Shell Rimula R2 makes this oil particularly suitable for off-highway applications such as agricultural tractors and light to medium sized construction equipment where poorer quality fuels may be encountered. Not all trucks are the sameThe new Shell Rimula light duty range is a special oil for light duty trucks designed to tackle urban driving conditions. Protects engine against wear in start/stop traffic. Maintains superior pick-up even on inclined roads. Strong engine performance during long motor hours. Thank you! A big thanks to truck drivers and healthcare professionals across the country for driving India forward in such tough times and ensuring the supply of essential services to all. Advanced Multi-Grade Oils - Shell Rimula Shell Rimula advanced multi-grade oils have been developed for the latest on-highway and off-highway vehicles. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants frequently asked questionsTo help you understand oil better, here are the answers to the questions we’re most frequently asked. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Find the right oil to useUse our LubeMatch tool or download the miGarage app to find the right oil for your vehicle or machinery. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Why the right motor oil mattersWhether you’re looking for better performance from your car or improved reliability in your truck, it’s essential that you get your oil right. Using the correct oil keeps your engine running smoothly. Primarily, oil stops the metal surfaces in your engine from grinding together and wearing, by creating a separating oil film between them. The oil also disperses heat and reduces wear, protecting the engine. On top of this, good oil prevents dirt build-up and deposits by keeping them in suspension. Motor oil even protects against sludge and fights oxidation, keeping the oil fresh and minimising acids which can cause corrosion. In short, oil matters. Below, we answer some of the most common questions about motor oil: What is oil viscosity? What do the oil numbers mean? What’s the difference between mineral and synthetic? What are performance additives? Using the correct oil keeps your engine running smoothly. Primarily, oil stops the metal surfaces in your engine from grinding together and wearing, by creating a separating oil film between them. The oil also disperses heat and reduces wear, protecting the engine. On top of this, good oil prevents dirt build-up and deposits by keeping them in suspension. Motor oil even protects against sludge and fights oxidation, keeping the oil fresh and minimising acids which can cause corrosion. In short, oil matters. Below, we answer some of the most common questions about motor oil: What is oil viscosity? Viscosity is an important criterion of any lubricating oil. It is a measure of a fluid’s thickness or resistance to flow. For example, honey is thick and water is thin, so honey has a higher viscosity than water. Oil viscosity needs to suit the right ambient temperatures. If it’s too thick when the engine is cold, it won’t move around the engine. And if it becomes too thin when the engine is hot, it won’t give the right protection to the engine parts. Optimising an oil’s viscosity, or thickness, helps maximise energy efficiency while avoiding component wear. Viscosity modifiers increase the viscosity of your oil at high temperature but have little effect on low-temperature viscosity. These enable your oil to flow properly when cold and also to remain thick enough to protect your engine components at high temperatures. Lower-viscosity grades of oil such as Shell Helix Ultra, make it easier for your engine to start from cold because they present less resistance to moving parts and hence take less power from your engine. This also means that you get enhanced fuel economy. To find the right oil viscosity for your engine, check your manufacturer’s guidelines and bear in mind the weather conditions you live and drive in. For our recommendation, try our simple Shell LubeMatch tool. What do the oil numbers mean? Multigrade oils are those oils that have two numbers on the grade, indicating that the oil is able to maintain engine performance in high and low temperatures. A multigrade lubricant minimises viscosity differences under temperature variations. The first number on a multigrade oil is normally followed by a W, which stands for winter. This number represents the lubricant’s viscosity under lower temperatures, giving an indication of how the oil will flow in the winter. The lower the first number, the thinner it is at low temperatures. The second number, which appears after the W, represents the oil's viscosity under high temperatures. The higher the number, the thicker the oil will stay at high temperatures. Using the correct viscosity for your engine increases engine performance, reduces engine wear and increases fuel efficiency. In addition, synthetic oils usually have better low and high temperature properties than normal mineral oils. This maintains protection while allowing better fuel economy and cold starting. To find which viscosity index rating your vehicle needs, try our Shell LubeMatch tool here. What’s the difference between mineral and synthetic? There are two main types of base oil: mineral and fully synthetic. Motor oils labelled as ‘part-’ or ‘semi-synthetic’ or ‘synthetic technology’ contain a mixture of these two types. Mineral base oils come from crude oil that is processed in a refinery to separate out the fractions with useful lubrication properties and remove unwanted components such as waxes. Unlike some motor oil manufacturers, Shell makes its own top-class mineral base oils by selecting the best crudes and employing stringent quality control procedures throughout the entire production process. Synthetic base oils give enhanced performance because they are manufactured using a more expensive chemical process than that used in mineral oil production. Because of this, fully synthetic oils like Shell Helix Ultra flow more easily at start-up temperatures, when most wear occurs. They are also more resistant to heat and are more easily protected by antioxidant additives (oxidation is a natural degradation process that occurs in oil over time). Plus they are less volatile than mineral oils. To see if we recommend synthetic oil for your vehicle, try our simple and quick tool, Shell LubeMatch here. What are performance additives? Performance additives give extra protection to the base oil and enable it to protect and clean your engine, helping it to work harder for longer. They come in several kinds that must be carefully selected and blended to give top-class performance: Detergents keep your engine clean and neutralise the corrosive acids that form as fuel is burned. Dispersants remove soot and sludge and hold it in the oil to prevent blockages. This dirt can then be removed from your engine at the next oil change. Anti-wear additives protect your engine by forming a chemical layer between the moving parts. These additives are particularly important when motoring with high loads or during engine start-up. Antioxidants help to delay the natural degradation of your motor oil, hence protecting your engine more effectively for longer. Friction modifiers reduce the drag between moving parts to increase fuel economy. Anti-rust additives are essential elements that prevent engine corrosion. What makes Shell leaders in oil?Designed to give you a cleaner car engine, a more responsive bike or a more reliable truck, we’ve put our extensive oil-development knowledge into every aspect of the Shell formula – from the base-oil technology through to additive selection and blending. We are leaders in oil because: Our pioneering research centres invest in the latest technology We’re constantly challenged by innovative technical partnerships We help to deliver excellent engine protection By cleaning, protecting and lubricating, our range of Shell oils is designed for the challenges of today’s vehicles. We test our oils beyond industry standards because you never know when your vehicle may be pushed to its limit. And to ensure we stay ahead when it comes to technology and performance, we have developed strong technical partnerships with some of the most prominent names in motorsport. We also understand drivers’ needs. Shell oil is present in more than 130 countries and serves over 20 million customers a day through 40,000 service stations. We obtain regular customer feedback, and this is fed into our lubricant research programme to make sure that we develop Shell oils to meet their needs – whether they drive in Arctic or tropical conditions. Our pioneering research centres invest in the latest technology Our leading research centres across the globe combine knowledge, expertise and innovation to create solutions that add real value for you. Investing in the latest technology means we are often the first to market products and services that provide superior protection and efficiency. We’re constantly challenged by innovative technical partnerships Shell has been making high-quality motor oil and working with some of the world’s top racing teams since the 1920s. Our technical partnerships with motorsport champions Scuderia Ferrari, Ducati and NASCAR bring constant learning from the racetrack. These then influence the products that we produce for your vehicle. Shell Helix has been developed during the technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari’s Formula One team – now lasting more than 60 memorable years. Its unique active cleansing technology cleans your engine as you drive. This removes more dirt and sludge than conventional oils, providing Shell’s ultimate cleaning performance. The fact that there are fewer regulatory restrictions on lubricants in Formula One gives Shell chemists and engineers more freedom to explore new unique formulations. Another great technical partnership that has improved our oils and lubricants is between Shell Advance and Ducati, the championship-winning MotoGP team. Whatever we learn with them, we transfer to where bikers need it most – the engine, the gearbox and the bike chain. This constant innovation means bikers can rely on Shell Advance to help get the best performance from their bike. Learn more about our technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari. Find out more about our technical partnership with Ducati. We help to deliver excellent engine protection All of our oils are designed to protect, whether that’s through cleaning or lubricating. For example, Shell Helix motor oils contain the same active cleansing agents as the Shell Helix lubricant used in Scuderia Ferrari Formula One engines. These agents actively protect internal engine components with the aim of maximising performance. Shell Rimula is depended on for protection and reliability. For businesses using heavy duty diesel engines, it is critical that they stay in top condition. Every second they are out of action costs money. That’s why we designed Shell Rimula to help protect engines and maximise equipment life – even in extreme conditions. It can also help trucks run for longer without stopping to drain their oil, therefore making considerable cost savings. To find out which of our oils can provide the best protection for your vehicle try the Shell LubeMatch tool. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty Privacy PolicyThis is the Privacy Policy of Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty. This Privacy Policy provides information on the processing of your personal data as a result of being (i) one of our customers, (ii) a member of the Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty (iii) a visitor to the Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty website controlled by Shell India Markets Private Limited or one of its affiliates (Shell). This Privacy Policy may be changed over time. You are advised to regularly review the Privacy Policy for possible changes. 1. When is this Privacy Policy applicable? This Privacy Policy is applicable to the processing of your personal data as a result of being (i) one of our customers, (ii) a member of theShell Helix Lifetime Warranty (iii) a visitor to the Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty website On the Website you will find a number of links to other websites. Although these websites are selected with care, we are not responsible for the processing of your personal data through these websites. This Privacy Policy is therefore not applicable to the use of such websites. 2. Who is the controller of your data? Shell India Markets Private Limited, [CIN #U23201TN2004PTC053147], a company governed under the Companies Act, 2013, having its registered office at 2nd Floor, Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia, No. 143, Dr. M.G.R. Road, Kandanchavady, Perungudi, Chennai – 600096 is the controller for the processing of your personal data. 3. For what purpose do we process your personal data? In this Privacy Policy we describe what personal data we process and for what purposes. 3.1 Customer service and relationship management What does this purpose entail? If you contact our Customer Service Centre with a question or a complaint, we may ask you for certain information to identify yourself and to help us respond to your enquiry. We use any personal data supplied only for this purpose and to improve our customer support services. Which personal data do we process for this purpose? To be able to respond appropriately to your question or complaint, we note details of your question or complaint in our customer database. We may also ask you for contact details in order to keep you informed about your question or complaint.. 3.2 Participate in promotions What does this purpose entail? Shell regularly runs promotions for its customers. In some cases we will ask you to provide us with your personal data through a registration form, advertisement or website in order to participate in the promotion. Which personal data do we process for this purpose? If you choose to participate in such promotions, we may process the personal data provided by you (including your name, mobile telephone number, age, address and e-mail address) in order to register or confirm your participation, to determine whether you fulfill the promotion conditions and to send you any prizes or benefits. Depending on the promotion we may also process information on your participation in the promotion, such as scores, submissions or prizes/benefits won. 3.3 Development and improvement of products and services What does this purpose entail? Shell regularly conducts market research with its customers through the use of surveys. We use your responses to such surveys for quality assessments and to improve your customer experience. Which personal data do we process for this purpose? If you choose to participate in our surveys, we may process the personal data provided by you (including your name, mobile telephone number, address and e-mail address and the details regarding your vehicle, including VIN number). 3.4 Offers for Shell Products and Services What does this purpose entail? As a customer of Shell and/or a member of our Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty program, you may receive offers and information from Shell (“Offers”). Such Offers may include but are not limited to the issue of: electronic newsletters with offers and general information; Shell fuel or shopping vouchers; discount coupons for Shell shop products. You may receive your Offers by regular mail, email, SMS, through the Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty Website, social media, coupons or any other digital channels used by you. You may adjust your Contact Preferences & Account Settings at www.shell.com/warranty Which personal data do we process for this purpose? For sending you General Offers, we may process the personal data provided by you (including your name, address and e-mail address as well as details regarding your vehicle, including VIN number). In order to be able to provide you with more personalised Offers, Shell may analyse your purchase history (including data regarding (i) specific products you buy, (ii) the total amount of your purchases per transaction, (iii) the time and place of the purchases you make and (iv) the payment method you use), your use of the Website, and e-mails you receive from Shell us, your location based on your IP-address, your participation in promotions and your responses to surveys. In order to determine your preferences, Shell may also combine your personal data already known by affiliates of Shell including your use of the Shell Club Smart Program, Websites, Apps, coupons, social media, survey’s, promotions and other digital channels; Shell branded fuel cards and other payment cards at Shell retail sites, along with purchases of customers with similar interests and supplemental socio-demographic information about you from third party sources in order to analyse your previous purchases. Opting out of Offers You can at any time stop receiving Offers via the Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty website www.shell.com/warranty or by notifying to our Customer Service Center at the toll free number 18001039481 3.5 Administering our Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty program What does this purpose entail? We process your personal data in order to administer your participation in our Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty program. Which personal data do we process for this purpose? We may process any or all of the personal data provided by you during your enrollment in the Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty program, such as your name, mobile telephone number, age, address and e-mail address as well as details of your motor vehicle such as vehicle’s VIN number). 3.6 Technical and functional management of the Website What does this purpose entail? When you visit or use the Website, we process some technical information about you (such as your IP address) to provide you the functionalities of our online services and to manage them. With this technical information we are able to manage the Website, for example to resolve technical failures or to improve their reliability. Which personal data do we process for this purpose? We process technical data such as the IP address of your computer, tablet or smartphone, details of the pages you have visited on the Website, the web browser you use to surf, previous/subsequent sites that you have visited and the length of your visit/session. 3.7 Preventing, detecting and investigating fraud What does this purpose entail? Shell may use the personal data you provide Shell to prevent, detect and investigate fraud and to enforce its Terms and Conditions. 4. Who has access to your data? Shell may disclose your personal data to any of the following: Authorized third party companies involved in the operation of the Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty program, such as any other company that is permitted to supply products and/or services to Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty program members; Any agents, service providers and/or subcontractors of Shell and its affiliates; Any person to whom Shell proposes to transfer any of its rights and/or duties. Except as set out in this Privacy Policy, we will not disclose any personal data without your permission unless we are legally entitled or required to do so or if we believe that such action is necessary to protect and/or defend our rights, property or personal safety and those of our users/customers or other individuals. Only if Shell is required to do so by law, will your personal data be provided to supervisory agencies, fiscal authorities and investigative agencies. 5. For what period do we retain your personal data? Once you discontinue your participation in the Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty, we will close the applicable accounts as soon as reasonably possible. We will also close or deactivate inactive customer accounts and close accounts that are used in violation of this Privacy Policy or applicable Terms and Conditions. Under certain circumstances we will retain personal data from closed or deactivated accounts for longer, such circumstances being the prevention of fraud or to otherwise take actions permitted or required by law. 6. Which cookies does Shell use? The Website uses cookies or similar technology. A cookie is a small text file that is sent to your internet browser so that we are able to recognise your browser when you return. Shell and its authorised service providers may use small graphic images known as ‘clear GIFs’ that work in conjunction with cookies to identify you and your use of the Website and/or App. Shell and such service providers may also use other technologies to store information in your browser utilising local shared objects or local storage, such as HTML 5 cookies, flash cookies and other web application software methods. Using these technologies we can collect data on the use of the Website such as which pages are visited, your interaction with information on the Website and the duration of your visit. Functional cookies – Shell stores cookies that are essential in providing the functionalities of the Website and/or App. For instance, the cookies remember your preferences, such as language and region, which remain as your default settings when you revisit the Website and/or App. However, should you wish to do so, you can choose to reject or block the cookies set by Shell by changing your browser settings – see the Help function within your browser for further details. Web analytics cookies – Shell may use third party cookies for web analysis. Such cookies allow Shell to analyse the usage of the Website and/or App. This relies on aggregated statistical data that Shell’s authorised service providers provide Shell and allows Shell to understand the way you use the Website and/or App. Shell and such service providers may only provide such data to third parties if this is required by law. Advertising cookies – Shell may use third party cookies for advertising purposes. Shell may use authorised service providers to serve advertising on the Website and/or App and other websites on the internet. Such service providers may place cookies on your browser, and may collect information that helps them identify your device, such as IP-address, or other unique or device identifiers. Please note that most browsers automatically accept cookies so if you do not wish cookies to be used you may need to actively delete or block the cookies. You can also visit www.allaboutcookies.org for details on how to delete or reject cookies and for further information on cookies generally. For information on the use of cookies in mobile phone browsers and for details on how to reject or delete such cookies, please refer to your handset manual. Note, however, that if you reject the use of cookies you will still be able to visit our websites but some of the functions may not work correctly and you may no longer be able to use all the functionalities of the Website. 7. Special Notice – if you are under 18 years old? Shell does not intentionally collect personal data of persons under 18 years old. If you are under 18 years old please do not send us your personal data (for example, your name, address and email address). If you are under 18 years old and you wish to ask a question or use the Website in anyway which requires you to submit your personal data please get your parent or guardian to do so on your behalf. 8. How do we secure your personal data? We have implemented technology and policies with the objective of protecting your privacy from unauthorised access and improper use. 9. Who to address regarding questions and requests of access, removal etc. We aim to keep our data about you as accurate as possible. If you would like to review, change or delete the details you have supplied to us, please send your request via Customer Service Center at the toll free no. 18001039481or log in your Shell Helix Lifetime Warranty program account at www.shell.com/warranty Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Outride Anything With Shell AdvanceThe road can be an unpredictable place and you need to be protected against every challenge that comes your way. Shell Advance motorcycle oil is formulated to give your bike’s engine complete protection, giving you the courage to outride anything. Protects at high temperatures Riding on a hot day can be a challenge. With Shell Advance bike engine oil you can be confident that you can outride the heat because Shell Advance has been formulated to perform 25% better at high temperatures than a leading competitor. Smooth ride is defined as reduced noise and vibration due to shear stable lubricant, smooth engine operation and performance as lubricant retains viscosity and keeps the engine clean Retains horsepower When you’re on the road you want your bike to perform at an optimum level. Our field trials have demonstrated that with Shell Advance in your engine, there is no power loss throughout your journey. All Claims are based on field trial results and/or lab based data (controlled environment) All existing claims’ disclaimers will also be applied Improves fuel economy When you’re on a ride you want to be able to go further for longer. Shell Advance Ultra improves fuel economy by 5kmpl over a mineral oil, giving you the confidence to always go the extra mile. All Claims are based on field trial results and/or lab based data (controlled environment) All existing claims’ disclaimers will also be applied Thoroughly cleans your pistons The cleaner your bike’s engine, the better its performance. Shell Advance cleans pistons 33% better than a leading competitor, so you can be confident wherever your next journey takes you. Smooth ride is defined as reduced noise and vibration due to shear stable lubricant, smooth engine operation and performance as lubricant retains viscosity and keeps engine clean All Claims are based on field trial results and/or lab based data (controlled environment) All existing claims’ disclaimers will also be applied Strengthens engine against wear and damage Wear and tear can be critical to your bike’s performance. With Shell Advance, your bike will be protected against engine wear 36% better than API limits. So you can focus on the road and outride anything. Complete-Protection is defined as keeping pistons clean, protection against engine wear and protection at high temperatures All Claims are based on field trial results and/or lab based data (controlled environment) All existing claims’ disclaimers will also be applied Recommended by leading Manufacturers Shell’s Technical Partnership with Ducati Corse Shell and Ducati began their journey together in 1999, with Shell supporting Ducati Corse in the World Superbike Championship, before the two later joined forces to contest the MotoGP World Championship. The partnership is one of the most successful in premier bike racing, with over 150 race wins in total, and seven Riders’ World Titles in MotoGP (2007) and the World Superbike Championship (1999, 2001, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2008). All race bikes used by the Ducati Corse factory team in MotoGP run on bespoke race formulations of Shell Advance motorcycle oil. This iconic partnership has since gone on to become one of the most enduring and recognized in the world of premier bike racing. The technical partnership between the two iconic brands has been a major success both on and off the track, enabling the continued development of Shell Advance motorcycle engine oil and Shell V-Power performance fuel in the most demanding settings for the benefit of bikers around the world. Also, Ducati not only uses Shell products on the track, but also chooses Shell Advance Ultra bike oil as the first fill for every Ducati road bike that leaves its factory in Bologna, Italy. The transfer of knowledge gained from the track to Shell products for the road is central to the Technical partnership with Ducati, MotoGP provides the most extreme test bed for Shell’s products. Lubricants frequently asked questions Choosing the right car engine oil for your vehicle can be confusing. View our frequently asked questions to help you answer your motor oil queries. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell Advance presents “The Ride” We believe that biking is a get-away from our daily routine and it gives us the freedom to express ourselves. Shell Coolant RangeShell’s new range of coolants are based on superior Organic Additive Technology (OAT) that outperform conventional coolants. This results in better heat transfer performance, excellent corrosion protection and does not let scales or deposits to form inside the vehicle. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Cash CardProgram Ended.. The Shell Cash Card (SCC) program ended on 15th Mar 2020. If you were a customer of the SCC program and have queries, you can write to us at generalpublicenquiries-in@shell.com* * Subject to revision without any prior notice. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Shell Cash CardProgram Ended.. The Shell Cash Card (SCC) program ended on 15th Mar 2020. If you were a customer of the SCC program and have queries, you can write to us at generalpublicenquiries-in@shell.com* * Subject to revision without any prior notice. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Shell Service Stations We put the service back into service-station, ensuring you always leave us a little happier than when you arrived. Deli2go coffees are made of a special high-quality blend of arabica and robusta, which gives you that boost every morning and the drive to go on the entire day. Pair it up with our wide range of hygienic but street-good food items, and the taste will surely make you come back for more every time. Our carefully crafted menu has something for everyone – from desi chai and filter coffee to international favorites like cappuccino and americano; from super healthy and delicious idlis to spicy and tangy bhels; from hearty and fulfilling sandwiches and wraps to the all-time favorites maggi – all hygienically and custom-made just for our customers. To explore more, click on the links below: Hot Beverage Cold Beverage Snacks and Breakfast Sandwhiches and Wraps About deli2go: Deli2go is Shell’s own brand of fresh food and beverages. It was launched in the year 2015 in India and since then has grown into a popular destination for fresh coffee and delicious food on the go for people from all walks of life. Safety is a part of our DNA, and we follow the most stringent hygiene protocols at all our deli2go locations. Every bite or sip of item purchased from deli2go promises to be fresh, hot and made to order. Enjoy the explosion of flavor inside your mouth with every bite or sip. Every time you place an order with us, we ensure that our baristas are following all the measures we have put into place for the safety of our customers and staff alike, and that the staff are wearing their personal protective gear like hats, gloves and masks while handling food. At each of our deli2go locations, you will find medical certificates of food handlers which is updated every six months to ensure highest hygiene standards. Veg and non-veg segregation is maintained at all levels of food handling and processing, which includes clear demarcation, wherever applicable. *All images are for representation only. Actual products may vary. Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Chai A steaming cup of good, strong chai is the ultimate feel-good beverage loved by people from every walk of life. Every cup of tea you enjoy at deli2go will take you back to the good ol’ days filled with happy thoughts and promises of a bright future. Coffees The ultimate pick-me up and productivity booster, a good cup of joe is what anyone needs to take the day head on. Our range of hot coffees has been especially curated to give you the best of Indian and international variants – be it the classic filter coffee, or the bestseller cappuccino. Cold Beverage Snacks and Breakfast Sandwhiches and Wraps Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Asli Mojitos Beat the heat with refreshing mojitos from deli2go! Made fresh from quality ingredients and available in unique flavors, these bestsellers are the ultimate summer drinks to enjoy with your buddies! Milkshakes Shake, shake, shake up your life with our sinfully good and unique flavors of milkshakes! Cool, sugary, refreshing drinks to bring out the child in you. Cold Coffee Hot Beverage Snacks and Breakfast Sandwhiches and Wraps Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Sandwiches and Wraps Flavorful and fresh ingredients combine together to form a wholesome range of sandwiches and wraps. Pair these with a cappuccino or a cold beverage to create a hearty and fulfilling lunch. Hot Beverage Cold Beverage Snacks and Breakfast Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Breakfast on the go Getting late for that meeting, or just looking for a wholesome snack – try our range of breakfast on the go items. Ready in a jiffy, these mouth-watering, healthy dishes will leave you content and satisfied for hours. Team these up with a hot steaming cup of traditional South Indian filter coffee or chai to make it the perfect breakfast combo. Cold Beverage Hot Beverage Sandwhiches and Wraps Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Motoring tips and adviceWe want to help you get the most out of every drive. That’s why we’ve put together some useful motoring tips to help you keep your vehicle safe and on the road for longer. So whether you’re a biker or a car owner, better journeys start here. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Economical driving tipsSmall changes in your driving style can save a lot of fuel. Follow our tips and learn how to go further for less. Give your car some TLC A well-tuned engine will save a surprising amount of Fuel. And all it takes is some simple maintenance and routine servicing. Lighten up Every extra pound or kilo can affect your fuel efficiency. So keep your boot and back seat clear of unnecessary items that can add weight to your vehicle (e.g. golf clubs). Are you turned on or off? Idling gets you nowhere, but still burns fuel. As a rule, if you’re in a queue, or waiting for someone for more than 10 seconds – switch off your engine. Easy does it The higher gear you drive in, the lower your engine speed is, which can improve fuel efficiency. So always change up a gear whenever your car comfortably can. Slippery customer Opening your windows or piling bikes and boxes onto the roof can heavily impact your fuel economy by increasing the drag on the air. Driving faster will also increase the wind resistance you encounter, causing your vehicle to use more fuel. No drain, no pain As a rule, anything that puts a drain on the battery will put a drain on your fuel economy – like air conditioning. But worse still is a battery in poor condition. So keep a check on your battery's health. Timing is everything Driving in heavy stop-start traffic is going to negatively affect fuel economy. So if you’re a commuter, avoid the rush hours when you can. You’ll really notice the improvement in fuel consumption. Open your eyes Think ahead when you’re driving. Slow down early at red lights, rather than stopping completely, or speed up a bit before you reach the foot of a hill. All these little things can add up to improved fuel economy. The fuel rule Not all fuels are the same. Better fuels burn more efficiently and can improve your fuel economy. So always choose one of high quality. Get pumped up Correctly inflated tyres are not only safer and last longer. But they will also reduce drag on the road, improving your overall fuel economy. 10 Safety tips Follow the advice of Don Palmer and you could become a better, safer driver. Looking after your vehicle The better you look after your vehicle the better it will look after you, and make every journey more enjoyable. 10 Safety tipsDon Palmer is a master coach in advanced road and racetrack driving techniques. In short, he’s one of the very best drivers in the world. His philosophical approach will help you become a safer driver. 1. Be alert If we think of rules as guidelines, rather than strict commands, we know when they are and aren’t applicable. Always allow yourself the flexibility to choose the most appropriate response to any challenge faced. 2. It’s all about you Remember, it’s not just about the vehicle. Be aware of your environment, the type of car, and the specific skills required. Perfect your concentration and awareness when behind the wheel, and your skills will fall in line. 3. Control your fear It’s instinctive for us to let fear take control when we meet a challenge on the road. However, building the right beliefs about driving confidence will allow logic and good practice to dominate any challenges. 4. Safety is a skill There are 3 types of driver: those who have their own crashes, those who get involved in other peoples crashes, and people who simply don’t have them. ‘Good’ drivers can still crash – it’s more important to be safe. 5. Don’t distract yourself Make use of your surroundings. Don’t just listen to the radio and keep an eye out for speed cameras – look ahead for potential hazards and they won’t catch you by surprise. 6. Expect the unexpected A better overall understanding of the road means that you will be able to spot precursor events leading to a potential accident. Always remember that a crash doesn’t have to be inevitable. 7. Take it slowly Fast driving belongs on the racetrack. Travelling at an easy, sensible pace gives you plenty of time and distance to respond to anything you may encounter. 8. Get to grips with your steering Most people don’t pay enough attention to their steering. If a car begins to lose control, the steering wheel is both the first place you’ll feel it and the best tool for responding to it. 9. Be a smooth operator Handle your steering and brakes with care. Steer firmly but gradually, avoiding harsh movements. An increased awareness means that you can brake earlier, and with a smoother motion. 10. Know your limits Without completing an advanced driving course, there’s only so much you can know. It’s important to understand the limits of your skills as a driver, and knowing not to push them. Economical driving tips Small changes in your driving style can save a lot of fuel. Follow our tips and learn how to go further for less. Shell V-Power Learn more about Shell V-Power with DYNAFLEX Technology. Looking after your vehicleThe better you look after your vehicle the better it will look after you, and make every journey more enjoyable. Anatomy of an engine: Heart condition The four-stroke engine was first patented nearly 150 years ago, and a lot has changed since then. We attempt to explain what happens to your fuel when modern engines get to work. Anatomy of an engine: Engine nutrition At the heart of every engine is the fuel it uses, and Shell V-Power Nitro+ is our best performance fuel. Let’s show you how it works. Economical driving tips Small changes in your driving style can save a lot of fuel. Follow our tips and learn how to go further for less. 10 Safety tips Follow the advice of Don Palmer and you could become a better, safer driver. Shell station locator Find your nearest Shell Station and plan your route. Anatomy of an engine: Heart conditionThe four-stroke engine was first patented nearly 150 years ago, and a lot has changed since then. We attempt to explain what happens to your fuel when modern engines get to work. So, you’ve filled up with our fast acting performance fuel Shell V-Power Nitro+ Unleaded, designed to get to work instantly in your engine. But what’s happening in there? How does it all work? It’s all about control. The four-stroke cycle working the engine is basically the same as it’s been for the last 100 years. However, the detail is very different. Today it’s all about getting as much energy out of as little fuel as possible. So what exactly are the innovations that make today’s four-stroke petrol engine so advanced? Variable Valve Timing In the past the inlet and exhaust valves opened and closed at set times, dictating the engine’s characteristics and performance. But if you alter when the valves open and shut, you’ll get an engine capable of high speeds that doesn’t compromise on low-speed pulling ability. Variable valve timing is achieved by altering the rotational position of the inlet camshaft relative to the exhaust camshaft. Valvematic, Valvetronic, MultiAir & more Next, we change how much, and for how long, the valves stay open. The best way to alter the amount and duration of opening is to do it continuously over a wide range. A throttle is unnecessary. Instead, if you use the inlet valves to control airflow, by altering how far they open, this removes a major obstruction to airflow. Carmakers had spent years trying to design systems that can open the valve electronically or hydraulically, free from the camshaft’s limits. They eventually achieved this goal in 2009, creating the MultiAir engine that could pull energetically from low speeds and rev like a racing car without compromising on performance. Now comes the clever part: an electric solenoid valve bleeds off part of the oil flow in the hydraulic pipe as required, up to 60 times a second, leaving the rest to open the inlet valve. It’s probably the most significant breakthrough in piston engine design in the last 100 years. Direct Injection With direct injection, the fuel is squirted straight into the cylinder. Under light load, it can be squirted just before the spark occurs, near the top of the compression stroke. Essentially, you can inject less fuel than the total volume of air theoretically needs and still get a proper burn. For high-power running, the fuel is injected on the induction stroke as with indirect injection. This gives time for more fuel to be injected, cooling the air as it enters the cylinder. This means the mixture can be compressed more without overheating. Turbocharging A turbocharger has a turbine that uses waste energy from the flow of exhaust gases to drive an air compressor - it’s as close to a free power boost as you’ll get. The turbo compresses the air and forces it into the engine, so more can be squeezed into each cylinder for increased power. Protect it with Shell The technology we’ve mentioned so far is all to do with managing the four-stroke cycle, but there are many more ways in which modern engines save energy. Friction is the enemy of efficiency, so the easier an engine’s components can move, the better. Shell oil not only lubricates the engine but also cleans it of harmful deposits thanks to ingenious active cleansing agents. You can check which oil offers your engine the optimum protection using the Shell lube match tool. Let’s get to grips with how a conventional port fuel injection four-stroke petrol engine works. 1. The inlet valve opens as the piston is about to descend, sucking in the mixture of fuel and air. 2. With both valves now closed, the piston rises upwards, squeezing the mix of fuel and air. 3. Just before the piston reaches the top, the fuel and air mix is ignited by the spark plug. 4. The exhaust valve opens and the piston rises back to the top, expelling the burnt gases. Anatomy of an engine: Engine nutrition At the heart of every engine is the fuel it uses, and Shell V-Power Nitro+ is our best performance fuel. Let’s show you how it works. 10 Safety tips Follow the advice of Don Palmer and you could become a better, safer driver. Anatomy of an engine: Engine nutritionAt the heart of every engine is the fuel it uses, and Shell V-Power Nitro+ is our best performance fuel. Let’s show you how it works. Glenn Wilson An Automotive Engineer with more than 35 years’ industry experience. He is part of Shell’s Engine and Vehicle Technology team and has been working with Shell V-Power fuels since the early days of the development programme. Just as you and I need our “five a day” to stay healthy, your car or bike’s engine also needs a good diet. Glenn Wilson is an Automotive Engineer who has worked for Shell for over 25 years. His wealth of experience has made him something of an engine nutritionist, and he knows exactly what their diets should consist of. The key to developing our best performance fuel is the understanding of what goes on right at the heart of the engine: the interaction between the fuel and the engine components. You want your car to perform and fuel choice can play a big role. But how does Shell V-Power Nitro+ work? We asked Glenn to guide us through the anatomy of an engine. The Combustion Chamber The heart and lungs of the engine, where air is sucked in and combined with fuel before being tumbled, swirled, compressed, burnt and then released to exhaust. It’s known as the four-stroke Otto cycle. In petrol engines, the spark plug initiates combustion giving a smooth burn that develops pressure, forcing the piston down. However, under high pressure and temperature some petrol fuels can show a tendency to combust spontaneously. This can result in a ‘knocking’ or ‘pinking’ sound as small erratic bursts of combustion occur. As a result, an engine may suffer from depleted performance and in the most severe cases permanent damage can occur. Petrol’s octane rating is a measure of how well the fuel can resist this knocking. “Timing the combustion is critical to effective energy transfer from the burning fuel to the engine. A higher octane quality allows for an earlier spark, which means the piston can be pushed down more effectively and for longer,” says Wilson. Fuel Injectors It is the job of the fuel injector to ensure that the fuel is dispersed and mixed into the air in the exact pattern and volume required. In a diesel engine, they have to inject high-pressure fuel through holes no thicker than a human hair. Some fuels can lead to fouling of the injector holes, which can disrupt the spray pattern, resulting in poor combustion and power loss. “Diesels can be particularly vulnerable to injector deposits and that can really affect the spray pattern,” says Wilson. Shell V-Power Nitro+ Diesel is designed to restore and maintain engine power through active engine protection. Inlet Valves These perform the job of opening and closing several hundred times a minute to, depending on engine design, allow the air, or the air/fuel mix, into the combustion chamber. In a conventional port fuel injected petrol engine, inlet valves can be prone to deposit formation, which can have potentially disruptive effects. “If petrol inlet valves have been prone to deposit formation, you can end up with an engine that runs lean under acceleration, so you have less available power and a poorer response,” says Wilson. Shell V-Power Nitro+ is designed to instantly get to work in your engine on deposits which can reduce performance. Piston Rings The piston rings are designed to form a seal between the piston and the cylinder wall and slide up and down the cylinder bores several thousand times a minute. “Inside an engine is a tough place to be, especially at the top and the bottom of the stroke where the piston speed is effectively zero. It is difficult to maintain lubrication and friction can occur between the piston rings and cylinder walls,” says Wilson. The interface between these components is difficult to lubricate. The rings must form a tight seal to prevent lubrication oil from getting into the combustion space, which could lead to increased engine emissions, and to prevent combustion gases from entering the crankcase. This is where we see another unique element of Shell technology: “Shell V-Power Nitro+ contains Friction Modification Technology (FMT) which is designed to reduce friction in key engine areas, specifically in the piston assembly. In this way, it helps the engine to turn more freely thereby unlocking valuable energy which can lead to improved acceleration and power delivery. This is just one example of how learning from the technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari can benefit Shell customers.” Anatomy of an engine: Heart condition The four-stroke engine was first patented nearly 150 years ago, and a lot has changed since then. We attempt to explain what happens to your fuel when modern engines get to work. 10 Safety tips Follow the advice of Don Palmer and you could become a better, safer driver. Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction ReportThe Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction Report uncovers popular fuel saving myths, inspiring motorists to adopt correct fuel efficient behavior. About Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction report The Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction Report was commissioned by Shell and conducted by independent research firm Edelman Berland in December 2014 to January 2015. The survey uses new consumer research to reveal the interesting things people do to be fuel efficient. The programme will uncover popular fuel saving myths, inspiring motorists to adopt correct fuel efficient behavior. The survey was conducted as an online questionnaire with a nationally representative sample of 1,000 Indian drivers aged 18 to 40. Some top findings for India include: In India, fuel efficiency is important to 8 in 10 (83%) drivers. However over two-thirds (68%) do not know how to become fuel efficient This confusion is having a negative emotional impact on a large number of these drivers (54%) who say it causes them anxiety Drivers practice a number of myths – for example: 95% drivers turn on the air conditioning instead of winding down their windows to avoid wind resistance 92% drivers warm up the engine before they drive Over three quarters (78%) burp their car 98% drivers practice good behaviours such as; checking their tyres to make sure they are properly inflated, ensuring their vehicle is regularly serviced and driving smoothly Many drivers believe a number of these myths actually help them save fuel. For example, 7 in 10 (69%) believe warming up the engine saves them fuel, nearly two-thirds (63%) believe the same for filling up to half a tank to avoid excess weight and fuel evaporation. Surprisingly, half (49%) believe burping the car increases fuel efficiency Drivers in India are more likely to be energy efficient in the home than in the car For example, 9 in 10 (86%) will frequently turn off the lights when leaving the house, but only (59%) will frequently remove excess weight from their boot or backseat Over two-thirds (67%) agree that the education of engineering and science students is important in helping to save fuel Fuel efficient vehicles are considered the most relevant innovation followed closely by innovations in fuel Insert Links: Watch the Autocar/Bloomberg TV show on the Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction report here Read the full press release here Economical driving tips Small changes in your driving style can save a lot of fuel. Follow our tips and learn how to go further for less. 10 Safety tips Follow the advice of Don Palmer and you could become a better, safer driver. MotorsportsDiscover more about our involvement in Motorsports and how our partnerships help us to develop fuels and lubricants for motorists across the world. Shell and the World Rally Championship Shell has returned to the FIA World Rally Championship in an exciting partnership with Hyundai Motorsport. Shell and the World Endurance Championship Shell has returned to the FIA World Endurance Championship as Official Fuel Partner to the Automobile Club de l’Ouest. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Shell and Scuderia FerrariShell's Innovation Partnership with Scuderia Ferrari is one of the longest and most successful in motorsport. Learn about its history, peek behind the pit lane and see how the extreme conditions of Formula 1® help develop products for your car. Shell’s Innovation Partnership with Scuderia Ferrari Revisit one of the longest running partnerships in motorsport and learn about the remarkable moments and celebrated victories that have made this association so successful. Shell's role in the race Shell’s Track Lab team is trackside for every race, sampling and testing the fuels and lubricants as Shell helps power the Ferrari team to success. From racetrack to roadside Discover how the technological advances that power Scuderia Ferrari Formula 1® cars find their way into your vehicle via Shell V-Power and Shell Helix. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Car Engine Oils – Shell Helix Designed to meet your needs – whatever your driving challenges. Discover the full product range. Shell’s Innovation Partnership with Scuderia FerrariRevisit one of the longest running partnerships in motorsport and learn about the remarkable moments and celebrated victories that have made this association so successful. 1930s Where it all began - A personal relationship Shell’s technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari dates back to the time when Enzo Ferrari started racing for Alfa Romeo. Within five years of being made an official Alfa Romeo driver in 1924, Enzo went on to found the Scuderia Ferrari on Viale Trento Trieste in Modena, which assisted mostly gentlemen drivers in racing their cars. In 1938, Enzo Ferrari was appointed head of Alfa Corse but quit the position in 1939 to set up his own company, Auto Avio Costruzioni, which operated out of the old Scuderia buildings. 1947 Ferrari and the prancing horse The legendary symbol used by Ferrari has heroic origins. It was first adopted as a personal emblem by a highly decorated Italian World War I pilot, Francesco Baracca, who had it painted on the fuselage of his aircraft. At the end of the war, Baracca’s parents invited Enzo Ferrari to use the Cavallino Rampante (Prancing Horse) symbol. Enzo adopted it as the logo for his racing Scuderia, placing it on a yellow shield in honour of his hometown Modena and topping it with the Italian tricolour. The classic Ferrari red, however, was simply the colour assigned by the International Automobile Federation (FIA) to Italian Grand Prix cars in the early years of the last century. The Prancing Horse symbol made its debut at the 1932 Spa 24 Hours. 1950 Competition on the world stage Scuderia Ferrari took part in the inaugural Formula 1® World Championship season with the support of Shell. The championship consisted of six Grand Prix races, held in Europe and open to Formula 1® cars, plus the Indianapolis 500, which was run to AAA National Championship regulations. Giuseppe Farina of Alfa Romeo won the title. Scuderia Ferrari was just getting started. 1951 Ferrari’s first Formula 1® win By developing a normally aspirated 4.5 litre engine, the Scuderia Ferrari used significantly less fuel than its super-charged rivals and worked efficiently with fuel specially mixed by Shell. The result was Scuderia Ferrari’s first ever Formula 1® victory at Silverstone. Driving was José Froilan Gonzalez, the feted hero whose reward for victory was an audience with the Queen. Formula 1® 1952 World championships Alberto Ascari became the first driver to win a World Championship with Scuderia Ferrari in 1952. The first of many. The 1953 Shell-powered 500 F2 proved itself to be the best car in the field, with Ascari’s five wins bringing the Drivers’ Title home once more, as Scuderia Ferrari completed a winning streak of 14 consecutive victories over two seasons – a record that remains in tact today, excluding two editions of the Indianapolis 500. 1964 Surtees completes the set Ex motorcycle racer John Surtees wins the Formula 1® World Championship and becomes the first racer to win world titles on two and four wheels. John Surtees finished second in the Mexico Grand Prix which gave him the Drivers’ Championship by one point from Graham Hill. Scuderia Ferrari also won the Constructors’ title. 1996 Back together again After the hiatus of the 70s and 80s Shell resumed its technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari - and the results were better than ever. The Team made the most of lighter and highly combustible fuels and, with the great Michael Schumacher behind the wheel, success was just around the corner. 2000 Champions again Michael Schumacher became Scuderia Ferrari's first World Drivers’ Champion for 21 years having clinched the Drivers' Title at the penultimate race of the season, the Japanese Grand Prix. Scuderia Ferrari successfully defended their Constructors' title. This was a truly defining day in Shell’s history with the team proud to be part of Scuderia Ferrari’s latest triumph. 2004 Records continue to tumble Not for the first time the Drivers’ Championship was dominated by Michael Schumacher and Scuderia Ferrari. The German driver won the Drivers’ Championship for the fifth consecutive year and the Italian company took the Constructors’ Championship for the sixth straight season. 2007 Kim finishes first Kimi Räikkönen won The Drivers' Championship by one point at the final race of the season, making him the third Finnish driver to take the title. Räikkönen entered the final race in third position in the drivers' standings, but emerged as Champion after the chequered flag, a feat first accomplished by Giuseppe Farina in 1950 and later matched by Alain Prost in 1986. 2012 500 not out Shell’s technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari reached a new milestone in 2012. At the Singapore Grand Prix the teams celebrated 500 Formula 1® races together – an incredible achievement marked with a specially designed ‘Shell 500 Races’ logo on the rear wing of the F2012. 2015 Now and beyond Shell fuels and lubricants deliver an unprecedented 25% of total performance gain to the Scuderia Ferrari power unit as the two companies extend their relationship to an Innovation Partnership which will see Shell continue to power Scuderia Ferrari’s teams in Formula 1® and beyond, and Scuderia Ferrari support Shell’s global Eco-marathon programme. Shell's role in the race Shell’s Track Lab team is trackside for every race, sampling and testing the fuels and lubricants as Shell helps power the Ferrari team to success. From racetrack to roadside Discover how the technological advances that power Scuderia Ferrari Formula 1® cars find their way into your vehicle via Shell V-Power and Shell Helix. Shell's role in the raceShell's Track Lab team is trackside for every race, sampling and testing the fuels and lubricants throughout race weekend. The adrenalin flows trackside as we help power the team to success. Since 1947, when the first Ferrari road car rolled out the gates of Maranello filled with Shell fuels and lubricants, every vehicle produced in the famed factory has been powered and protected by Shell. This year, Shell joins Ferrari in celebrating its 70th anniversary as a manufacturer of the world’s most charismatic and desirable road cars. The Shell Innovation Partnership with Ferrari is today, one of the most respected and recognised in the world of motoring, and one of the most decorated and celebrated in the world of motorsport. Guy Lovett Guy is responsible for the technology projects for Shell’s Innovation Partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, its Technical Partnership with Ducati in MotoGP and also with the ACO as the sole fuel supplier of World Endurance Championships. He is currently based out of the Shell Technology Centre in Hamburg, where he looks after delivering performance for partners in Formula 1® and beyond. Benoit Poulet Benoît leads the team that develops Shell V-Power fuels for Scuderia Ferrari. He splits his time between the Shell Technology Centre in Hamburg and the Scuderia Ferrari Gestione Sportiva in Maranello, working with a team of fuel scientists and engineers to co-create new fuel formulations as the new Scuderia Ferrari power unit is being developed and improved. Drew Stinton Drew supports Scuderia Ferrari in the Shell Trackside Laboratory at all Formula 1® races. He is in charge of setting up, servicing and maintaining Shell’s analytical equipment and facilities in the paddock, and conducting all fuels and lubricants tests over a race weekend. When he isn’t on the road, Drew is often in Maranello, conducting maintenance on Shell’s two Trackside Labs. Marcel Ehlert Marcel splits his time between two of Shell’s major motorsport partners, supporting the Shell Trackside team in Formula 1 and also coordinating fuel logistics and delivery for the World Endurance Championship. Jennifer Plueckhahn Jennifer, or Jenny as most of the team know her, has just finished her first season on the road as a member of the Shell Trackside team. She splits her time between traveling to races, and the Shell Technology Centre in Hamburg, coordinating projects and timelines for new formulation development across the Shell Motorsport portfolio. Paul Johnson Paul is part of the team of Shell scientists that support Scuderia Ferrari at each race, testing fuels and lubricants from the Shell Trackside Laboratory. On top of setting up the lab at each race and making sure all instruments are functioning exactly as they should, he also supports the development of new Shell V-Power race fuel formulations in between race weekends. This season will be his first as part of the Shell Trackside team. Shell’s Innovation Partnership with Scuderia Ferrari Revisit one of the longest running partnerships in motorsport and learn about the remarkable moments and celebrated victories that have made this association so successful. From racetrack to roadside Discover how the technological advances that power Scuderia Ferrari Formula 1® cars find their way into your vehicle via Shell V-Power and Shell Helix. From racetrack to roadsideLearn how we use Scuderia Ferrari’s Formula 1® cars as the ultimate test bed to develop products that boost your engine’s performance. Shell invests over 21,000 man hours per year to support Scuderia Ferrari in Formula 1® , with over 50 technical staff involved in supporting the Formula 1® programme. To date, Shell has powered Scuderia Ferrari to ten FIA Formula 1® Constructors’ titles and 12 Drivers’ Championship wins Each bespoke formulation of Shell V-Power race fuel blended for Scuderia Ferrari can contain over 200 different compounds. Formula 1® engines can run in excess of 1,000 degrees Celsius. It is the job of Shell Helix Ultra race lubricant to protect Scuderia Ferrari’s engines, even in these punishing conditions. All bespoke blends of Shell V-Power race fuel used by Scuderia Ferrari contain at least 5.75% of bio-components by weight. The Shell V-Power race fuel used by Scuderia Ferrari contains 99% of the same types of compounds as found in Shell V-Power Unleaded road fuels available to customers worldwide. Shell’s Innovation Partnership with Scuderia Ferrari Revisit one of the longest running partnerships in motorsport and learn about the remarkable moments and celebrated victories that have made this association so successful. Shell's role in the race Shell’s Track Lab team is trackside for every race, sampling and testing the fuels and lubricants as Shell helps power the Ferrari team to success. Shell and DucatiOur Technical Partnership with Ducati Corse has grown into one of the most successful collaborations in motorsport. Working shoulder-to-shoulder with the Ducati team, what we learn from our extreme testing environment on the racetrack is used to provide bikers all over the world with high performing products such as Shell V-Power road fuel and Shell Advance oil. Shell's technical partnership with Ducati Shell’s innovation and development in MotoGP has co-engineered Ducati Corse to multiple race victories through our close technical partnership. Shell and Ducati in MotoGP Shell brings you all the essential MotoGP information you’ll need, including the history, this season's races and the Ducati Desmosedici GP bike. Shell and Ducati superbike world championship Shell brings you all the essential Superbike information: the history, this season's races and the Ducati 1199 Panigale bike. Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Engine Oils For Bikes - Shell Advance Protect your engine and enjoy every ride with Shell Advance motor oils with PurePlus Technology. Shell's technical partnership with DucatiThe MotoGP World Championship is followed by millions of dedicated fans every year and Shell’s innovation and development within the sport has enabled them to help power Ducati Corse to more than 30 race victories as a result of a close technical partnership. The Technical Partnership with Ducati Shell’s Technical Partnership with Ducati has been hugely successful on and off the race track, enabling Shell Advance Motorcycle Oil to benefit bikers around the world with cutting edge technology. The Technical Partnership has been invaluable for the continued development of Shell Advance and Shell V-Power products in the most testing environments. The relationship began in 1999 with Shell supporting Ducati Corse in the World Superbike Championship, before the two joined forces to contest the MotoGP World Championship together. The partnership has since stormed to seven Riders’ World Titles in MotoGP and the World Superbike Championship, and over 150 race wins, making it one of the strongest and most successful in the world of premier motorcycle racing. Ducati not only uses Shell products on the track, but also chooses Shell Advance oil and Shell V-Power fuel as the first fill for every Ducati road bike that leaves its factory in Bologna, Italy. Shell and Ducati in MotoGP Shell brings you all the essential MotoGP information you’ll need, including the history, this season's races and the Ducati Desmosedici GP bike. Shell and Ducati superbike world championship Shell brings you all the essential Superbike information: the history, this season's races and the Ducati 1199 Panigale bike. Shell and Ducati in MotoGPShell brings you all the essential MotoGP information - the history, this season's races and the Ducati Desmosedici GP bike. Shell’s involvement in the MotoGP World Championship MotoGP is the premier motorcycle racing championship in the world: an 18-race series that will visit 14 countries on four continents this season, with pan-global television coverage. The world’s most skilled riders line up on the grid armed with cutting-edge motorcycle technology and prototype machinery. Established as a world championship by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme (FIM) in 1949, MotoGP is now into its 67th year. It is the oldest motorsport championship in the world and is steeped in a rich history with events that have taken place in every corner of the world. The 2017 MotoGP season sees three-time world champion Jorge Lorenzo join Andrea Dovizioso at Ducati Corse as one of their two factory riders, with high hopes that he’ll bring his winning pedigree to an already successful team. This year, the partnership also celebrates its 10-year milestone since the clean sweep of the 2007 World MotoGP Riders’, Teams’ and Constructors’ Championships with Casey Stoner. On top of providing bespoke Shell Advance motorcycle oils and Shell V-Power fuel for the Ducati factory team’s Desmosedici GP17s, Shell also extends their support to Ducati supported team Pramac Racing and their riders Scott Redding and Danilo Petrucci. Andrea Dovizioso Job Title: Rider, Ducati Team factory rider in MotoGP Born on: March 23, 1986 in Forlimpopoli, Italy Racing debut: Began on minibikes whilst only young, racing on both asphalt and dirt – winning mini road racing titles in 1997 and 1998 by the time he was age 12. Andrea moved up to 125cc machines in 2000, taking the Aprilia Challenge crown in his debut season. MotoGP debut: Andrea moved up to MotoGP in 2008, finishing fifth overall and achieving his first podium at Sepang in his debut season. Move to Ducati: Moved from Tech3 Yamaha to Ducati in 2013, replacing Valentino Rossi in the factory team. 2017 will be his 5th consecutive season as a rider in the Ducati Team. Other Titles: Won the European 125cc title in 2001 and the 125cc World Championship in 2004. Jorge Lorenzo Job Title: Rider, Ducati Team factory rider in MotoGP Born on: May 4, 1987, Palma de Mallorca (Spain) Race debut: Jorge made his world championship debut on his fifteenth birthday, on the second qualifying day for the 2002 125cc Spanish Grand Prix, after having to miss Friday practice as he was not old enough to race. MotoGP debut: Jorge rode for Yamaha in 2008, having been confirmed as Valentino Rossi’s partner. He went on to win three MotoGP World Championships in 2010, 2012 and 2015. Move to Ducati: Jorge will wear Ducati leathers for the first time as a rider for the factory team in 2017, after nine consecutive seasons in the premier class as a rider for Yamaha. Other titles: Jorge became the most successful Spanish rider of all time in the 250cc class, having accrued 16 victories and two 250cc World Championships by 2007. Shell's technical partnership with Ducati Shell’s innovation and development in MotoGP has co-engineered Ducati Corse to multiple race victories through our close technical partnership. Shell and Ducati superbike world championship Shell brings you all the essential Superbike information: the history, this season's races and the Ducati 1199 Panigale bike. Shell and Ducati superbike world championshipShell brings you all the essential SBK information – the history, this season's races and the Ducati 1199 Panigale bike. Superbike world championship First managed by FGSport and then by Infront Sports in recent years, the championship is now in the hands of Dorna. Since 2014, and also thanks to the introduction of the Evo series that runs alongside the Superbike championship, numbers on the grid have been boosted, with the participation of eight international manufacturers and approximately 25 riders from at least nine different countries. With events held at some of the world’s most important racetracks, Superbike riders take part in two races at each round, meaning that a total of fifty championship points are on offer each race weekend. This year the Superbike calendar comprises 13 events scheduled to take place in 12 different countries spanning five continents, with two races each weekend. The current World Champion is French rider Sylvain Guintoli, who triumphed in the 2014 championship for Aprilia ahead of British stars Tom Sykes (Kawasaki) and Jonathan Rea (Honda). 2015 World Superbike calendar Date Country Circuit 22-Feb Australia Phillip island 22-Mar Thailand Chang International 12-Apr Spain Aragón 19-Apr Netherlands TT Circuit Assen 10-May Italy Imola 24-May United Kingdom Donington Park 7-Jun Portugal Algarve Circuit 21-Jun Italy Misano 19-Jul USA Laguna Seca 2-Aug Malaysia Sepang 20-Sep Spain Jerez 4-Oct France Nevers Magny-Cours 18-Oct Qatar Losail, Doha Shell's technical partnership with Ducati Shell’s innovation and development in MotoGP has co-engineered Ducati Corse to multiple race victories through our close technical partnership. Shell and Ducati in MotoGP Shell brings you all the essential MotoGP information you’ll need, including the history, this season's races and the Ducati Desmosedici GP bike. Shell and Ducati superbike world championshipShell brings you all the essential SBK information – the history, this season's races and the Ducati Panigale. Superbike world championship With events held at some of the world’s most iconic racetracks, Superbike riders take part in two races in each round, which means that a maximum of 50 championship points are on offer during each race weekend. This year the Superbike calendar includes 13 events scheduled to take place in 11 different countries and spanning four continents. Shell began supporting Ducati Corse in the World Superbike Championship in 1999, and today, continues to work with Aruba.it racing, Ducati’s factory supported team, supplying special race formulations of Shell Advance motorcycle oils and Shell V-Power fuel. Chaz Davies Job Title: Rider, Aruba.it Racing - Ducati Superbike team Born on: 10 February, 1987, Knighton, Wales Race debut: Chaz began racing in the British Mini Moto championship in 1995, before moving up to Junior Road Racing in 1999 MotoGP debut: Chaz made his MotoGP debut in 2007, when he rode for Pramac d’Antin Ducati in 3 races. Move to Aruba.it Racing: Chaz switched to World Supersport in 2009 before moving to the World Superbike Championship in 2012. He then joined the Aruba.it Racing - Ducati Superbike team in 2015. Other achievements: Became the World Supersport champion in 2011, which resulted in him being voted 2011 BBC Wales Sports Personality of the Year Marco Melandri Job Title: Rider, Aruba.it Racing - Ducati Superbike team Born on: August 7, 1982, Ravenna, Italy Racing debut: Marco began racing at an early age, competing through the ranks of minibikes, motocross before the Italian and European 125cc championship. First MotoGP opportunity: Marco moved to the MotoGP class in 2003 in the Yamaha factory team. He is no stranger to Ducati, having raced with the factory team alongside Casey Stoner in 2008. Move to Aruba.it: After a break from competitive racing in 2016, Marco will join Aruba.it Racing alongside Chaz Davies in 2017. Other achievements: Before his move to MotoGP, Marco won the 250cc World Championship in 2002 at 20 years of age, making him the youngest world champion in history at the time. Shell's technical partnership with Ducati Shell’s innovation and development in MotoGP has co-engineered Ducati Corse to multiple race victories through our close technical partnership. Shell and Ducati in MotoGP Shell brings you all the essential MotoGP information you’ll need, including the history, this season's races and the Ducati Desmosedici GP bike. Shell and the World Rally ChampionshipShell has returned to the FIA World Rally Championship (WRC) in an exciting new partnership with Hyundai Motorsport. The Partnership Shell and Hyundai have been global partners since 2005, with a Global Aftermarket Agreement in place across 67 markets worldwide. As a reflection of the strength and depth of this association, Shell’s technical partnership aims to co-engineer a winning edge to Hyundai Motorsport, as it competes at the highest level of global rallying. Extremes of temperature, altitude and road surface combine to give Shell and Hyundai the most breathtaking and extreme testing environment. From the classic Rallye Monte-Carlo in January to the gruelling Wales Rally GB in November, the WRC takes in an incredible array of challenges. Temperatures range from -40° in Sweden to +30° in Mexico, with drivers going flat-out and against the clock on timed special stages, driving on surfaces that include gravel, ice and snow, as well as paved roads. As the co-title sponsor of the Hyundai Shell-Mobis World Rally team, Shell has supported Hyundai Motorsport with their lubricant requirements from the time they joined the WRC in 2014. Armed with Shell Helix Ultra race lubricants, the Hyundai Shell-Mobis World Rally Team provides the ultimate extreme testing environment. Working together to develop Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology ensures that customers around the world have access to the best possible products, which are proven in their ability to handle extraordinary conditions. Dani Sordo Dani’s first experience of motorsport came on two wheels racing in motocross when he was just 12 years old. After briefly experimenting in motorbikes, Dani decided to trade in two wheels for four and landed in the exciting world of rally. Born in Torrelavegga, Spain, Dani’s first break into the World Rally Championship came in 2003 competing in the Rally Catalunya. His maiden win came ten years later at Rally Deutschland before he then joined the Hyundai Motorsport team alongside co-driver and fellow Spaniard, Marc Marti. Dani is now recognised as one of the more experienced and consistent members on the rally circuit, having entered 143 rallies in total securing over 40 podium finishes in his career to date. Marc Marti Born in Molins de Rei, Spain, experienced co-driver Marc Marti currently races for Hyundai Shell Mobis World Rally Team alongside fellow Spaniard, Dani Sordo. Marc’s affiliation with rally started back in 1992, when he debuted in the World Rally Championship as a co-driver to Oriol Gomez at Rally Catalunya. Marc transitioned seamlessly over to Hyundai Motorsport in 2014 as the co-driver of Dani Sordo and the pair have already achieved great success together, recording a second place finish in Rally Deutschland in 2016. The Spanish co-driver has worked with some of rally’s finest drivers over 20 years of experience and 150 starts to his name. Thierry Neuville Thierry Neuville first came under the spotlight in world rally after he secured a first career win in 2008 at the RACB Rally Content, a Belgian competition to find the next best young rally driver. His career continued in this vein of success when in 2010 he claimed his first class win in his rookie season at the Junior World Rally Championship. Destined for rally’s biggest stage, Thierry was snapped up as driver in the FIA World Championship in 2012. He later came on board for the debut season of the new Hyundai Shell World Rally Team in 2014, scoring the team’s maiden victory that year at Rally Deutschland ahead of teammate, Dani Sordo. Alongside co-driver Nicolas Gilsoul, Thierry finished runner-up in the World Rally Driver’s Championship in 2016 in his third consecutive season driving for Hyundai Motorsport. Nicolas Gilsoul Nicolas first began competing in regional driving events in 2000 and has since been enamoured by the world of rally. He made his international debut in 2004 and later entered the World Rally Championship in 2007. The Belgian currently acts as Thierry Neuville’s co-driver for the Hyundai Motorsport Team, a position he has held since 2011. Nicolas helped secure Hyundai Motorsport’s first ever World Rally Championship victory at Rally Deutschland in 2014. He also finished second in the World Rally Championship in 2016 alongside Neuville, and was awarded with the prestigious WRC Co-driver of the Year accolade in Sydney, Australia. Hayden Paddon New Zealand born Hayden Paddon first began karting in 1993, taking inspiration from his father Chris who was a regular competitor in the Mainland Series and National Championships. Hayden competed in his first rally in 2002 when he was only 15 years-old and later won both the Junior and Rookie titles of the New Zealand Rally Championship in 2006. Hayden rather inevitably made his World Rally Championship debut in 2007 featuring as a wildcard entry in the Production Car category at his home event in New Zealand. Hayden made his dream switch to Hyundai Motorsport in 2014 and alongside compatriot John Kennard took their first victory with the team at Rally Argentina in 2016. Since 2007, Hayden has amassed 20 stage wins and four podium finishes in World Rally Championship races. John Kennard John Kennard is the current co-driver to Hayden Paddon for the Hyundai Shell Mobis World Rally Team. Before his days as a co-driver, John was a driver himself competing in his native country New Zealand in 1079. Despite this brief stint in the driver’s seat, John quickly realised that his true talent was as a co-driver, a role he immediately impressed with in the World Rally Championship in 1985. This position also paved the way for John to experience working in several different managerial roles within the Mitsubishi and Subaru teams, expanding his knowledge of the sport away form the cockpit. He later joined forces with the talented driver Hayden Paddon and together the pair won the New Zealand Rally Championship in both 2008 and 2009. The successful duo also won the FIA Production World Car Rally in 2011 after dominating with four straight wins. Having shared success together over numerous years, John and Hayden both joined Hyundai Motorsport for the team’s debut season in 2014 and took their first victory for Hyundai Motorsport last season, at Rally Argentina. John has recently announced he will be stepping down form his role as co-diver to Hayden following the conclusion of the Rally Finland in July. Shell and Scuderia Ferrari See how Shell’s Innovation Partnership with Scuderia Ferrari and the extreme conditions of Formula 1® help develop products for your car. Shell and Ducati What we learn from our testing environment with the Ducati Corse team on the racetrack is used to provide bikers with high performing oils. Shell and the World Endurance Championship Shell has returned to the FIA World Endurance Championship as Official Fuel Partner to the Automobile Club de l’Ouest. Shell and the World Endurance ChampionshipShell has returned to the FIA World Endurance Championship (FIA WEC) as Official Fuel Partner to the Automobile Club de l’Ouest (ACO). Shell endurance racing A new generation of Shell V-Power fuels has been developed in partnership with the ACO, the FIA and the competing manufactures. Greater performance with reduced consumption lays the foundation for future road models. Throughout the history of long-distance racing, Shell has been an unwavering supporter of fuels innovation through motorsport. Today, as the Official Fuel Partner of the FIA World Endurance Championship and the European Le Mans Series, Shell continues the search for performance and efficiency through new, future-focused formulations of Shell V-Power. Nowhere is this more evident than at the Le Mans 24H, one of the jewels in the crown in the world of motorsport. It is at this historic race track where Shell has powered no less than 60 victories in the 84 races since its founding, including the unforgettable first-ever diesel-powered Le Mans win in 2006, running on a special bespoke blend of Shell V-Power LM24 Diesel. Shell and Scuderia Ferrari See how Shell’s Innovation Partnership with Scuderia Ferrari and the extreme conditions of Formula 1® help develop products for your car. Shell and Ducati What we learn from our testing environment with the Ducati Corse team on the racetrack is used to provide bikers with high performing oils. Shell and the World Rally Championship Shell has returned to the FIA World Rally Championship in an exciting partnership with Hyundai Motorsport. Shell Car Care Range: Take care of your carAfter having redefined quality fuels in India, Shell now brings to you an exclusive range of car care products that caters to all exterior and interior care needs of your vehicle. This international range of products has already recieved exceptional response across Europe and South East Asia and bears the certification of Dekra. Explore our range of products here or visit any of our retail stations for a demo! Why Choose the Shell Car Care Range? The famous Shell Pecten is recognized globally and is trusted as a sign of innovation and quality by consumers, especially those keen DIY enthusiasts who take the maintenance of their vehicles seriously. Shell’s brand name, recognition of quality and performance, are regularly highlighted in consumer surveys as the top considerations when buying auto products – often ahead of price. Shell is consistently named as one of the Top 25 most valuable brands in the world. Taking the core values of the brand forward is the newly launched international range of car care products. Each product has been thoughtfully developed with customer needs in mind along with superior quality guarantee that is tested and recognized by users and enthusiasts all across the world. All Shell Car Car products are also environmentally friendly earning them the coveted Dekra stamp of approval. It is a delight for most motor enthusiasts to spend some time with their vehicle and taking care of it themselves. With the Shell car care range that becomes more convenient and fun. Visit any of our retail stations to pick your favourite products today! Read more about Products Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Introducing Our Exclusive RangeWith the wide variety of products, the Shell Car Care range aims to take care of every need to keep your vehicle looking and feeling clean and shiny! Shell Summer Screenwash ( Ready to Use) Excellent cleaning Supplied in pouches or bottles Effectively removes insect debris, bird dropping and pollen Pleasant citrus perfume View Image for Shell Summer Screenwash ( Ready to Use) Shell Summer Screenwash (Concentrate:1:10) Excellent cleaning Supplied in pouches or bottles Effectively removes insect debris, bird dropping and pollen Pleasant citrus perfume View Image for Shell Summer Screenwash (Concentrate:1:10) Shell All Season’s Screen wash - 3 Litres Pouch ( Ready to Use) Excellent cleaning Supplied in pouches or bottles Effectively removes insect debris, bird dropping and pollen Pleasant citrus perfume View Image for Shell All Season’s Screen wash - 3 Litres Pouch Shell All Season’s Screen wash ( Concentrate) 1 litre ( 2: 1 Ratio) Excellent cleaning Supplied in pouches or bottles Effectively removes insect debris, bird dropping and pollen Pleasant citrus perfume View Image for Shell All Season’s Screen wash ( Concentrate) 1 litre ( 2: 1 Ratio) Shell Exterior Cleaning – Wipes Ideal for insects and bird droppings Quick and easy exterior cleaning solution Re-sealable and easy to store in your car View Image for Wipes Shell Premium Car Shampoo Suffused with rich vanilla-almond fragrance and enriched with Carnauba wax Shell Shampoo cleans, provide shine and protects the surface of the car View Image for Shell Premium Car Shampoo Exterior cleaning- Wax Polish Brilliant shine Removes light scratches Vanilla almond fragrance Silicone blend for color reviving 3-­‐in-­‐1: shine, protect and color reviving View Image for Wax Polish Exterior cleaning- Speed Wax Removes water spots Quick fix for extra gloss Carnauba wax enriched All exterior paintwork and chrome 3-­‐in-­‐1: shine, protect and water repellent View Image for Speed Wax Exterior cleaning- Wheel Cleaner All wheels in all sizes Acid free: safe for paintwork or wheels Fluid color indicator (turns purple) Highly effective and fast working formula German Wheel Cleaner test winner: Auto,Motor und Sport issue 21 in 2017. View image for Shell Wheel Cleaner Exterior cleaning- Wheel Cleaner Wipes Quick and easy wheel cleaning solution Ideal as finishing touch after a washing Resealable and easy to store in your car View image for Wheel Cleaner Wipes Exterior cleaning Up to 20 tyres Wet look effect Non greasy formula All tyres and whole year round use Quick and clean solution: spray and go View image for Exterior cleaning Shell Tyre Shine Comes with added glass enhancers to give your tyres that wet and slick look. With an easy spray and go application it saves you the trouble of wiping ypur tyres after use View image of Shell Tyre Shine Shell Microfibre Cloth Machine Washable Use the grey cloth for glass and yellow for interior / exterior cleaning. View image for Shell Microfibre Cloth Glass cleaning- Window Cleaner Inside and outside use Cleans headlights too Effectively removes dirt Anti-­‐fog and streak free formula View image for Window Cleaner Glass cleaning- Glass Wipes Resealable and easy to store in your car Quick and easy cleaning solution Cleans windows, lights and mirrors View image for Glass Wipes Interior cleaning- All interior Cleaner All-­‐in-­‐one maintenance product for leather and vinyl surfaces. Triple action formula: cleans, conditions & protects Quickly drying formula Leaves a fresh scent Removes dirt, grease or finger prints View image for All interior Cleaner Interior cleaning- Leather Wipes Shell Leather Wipes Quick and easy cleaning solution Cleans leather surfaces Resealable and easy to store in your car View image for Shell Leather Wipes Shell Cockpit Wipes Instantly refresh the interiors of your car with these wipes. Easy to store, They give your car a pleasant new-leather scent. View image for Shell Cockpit Wipes Shell Little Joe Airfreshners (4 Fragrances) Smells for > 45 days Family of 4 fragrances Easy to attach on A/C vent Use it everywhere: car, house, office New Car, Black Velvet, Flower and Vanilla fragrance View image for Little Joe Black Velvet View image for Little Joe Flower View image for Little Joe New Car View image for Little Joe Vanilla Shell Airfreshners (4 fragrances) Smells for > 30 days Family of 8 fragrances Easy to attach on rear-­‐view mirror Use it everywhere: car, house, office Vanilla, Fresh Lime and Lavender fragrance View image for Shell air freshener fragrance Fresh View image for Shell air freshener fragrance Vanilla View image for Shell air freshener fragrance Lavender View image for Shell air freshener fragrance Lime Shell Multi-­‐Function Spray 400ml Professional Multispray Two-­‐way spray system Resolves and prevents squeaking and creaking Cleans metal and leaves protective film Moisture-­‐repellent and anti-­‐corrosive View image for Shell Multi - Function Spray 400ml Shell Brake & Clutch Fluid Dot4 This heavy duty product prevents vapour lock resulting from boiling of the brake fluid and protects the internal components from corrision under normal use and service. View image for Shell Brake Fluid Dot4 Shell Tyre Repair An emergency fix, the Shell Tyre Repair comes with a special adapter that temporarily pumps and seals the damaged tyre, without the need for tools or a wheel change. View image for Shell Tyre Repair Shell Recharge Welcome to an all-new experience with Shell Recharge. Shell Recharge is equipped with ultrafast* charging, an easy-to-use Shell Recharge India App, Hassle-free payment options and a 24X7 customer support system. What’s more, explore a world of convenience retail, fresh food and beverages to keep you refreshed while you charge your electric vehicle at our Shell stations. Discover your nearest Charging Stations Station Locator Download Shell Recharge App now! Shell Recharge is with you for the journey – wherever and whenever you need to recharge your electric vehicle. Available on Google Play Available on App Store Refresh as your Recharge : Get a beverage free on your first charging at Shell Recharge This offer is valid only in Bangalore and Pune. This offer is valid for only 1 SKU ( selected items from deli2go) and is subject to availability of the product This offer can be availed only once. This offer cannot be combined or exchanged with any other offer provided by Shell. This offer is not redeemable for cash. This offer is valid only for successful/approved transactions This offer is valid till 31st Aug 2023. Once the offer is activated, it will remain valid only till 60 days from the date of activation. The customer after first time charging at Shell Recharge India app needs to register on Shell Asia and use the EV MemberPlus code for getting the offer on Shell Asia app Shell GO+ terms and conditions also apply By participating in the Offer, the Customers shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions. Click here to view our Terms & Conditions Click here to view our Privacy Policy Motorsports Shell's technical partnership with Scuderia Ferrari, race and rider profiles for the Shell Advance Asia Talent Cup and follow the Ducati team Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Motoring tips and advice Take better care of your vehicle by learning how to become more fuel efficient and safer on the road. Shell Recharge Application Terms & Conditions The following Terms & Conditions govern the Shell Recharge App for users registered through Shell Recharge App (herein after called the “App”), and issued by Shell India Markets Private Limited (Shell) to the members or users of Shell Recharge App. 1. GENERAL The mentioned terms and conditions are applicable across the App. By accessing or using the App or any functionality thereof, you confirm that you have read, understood and agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions. Shell reserves the right to vary, add, or amend the terms and conditions including but not limited to usage of the App, reward earning, reward redemption etc. Terms and Conditions, as amended, varied or supplemented from time to time, supersede any earlier terms and conditions issued by Shell. Shell can cancel, withdraw, alter or close registration for the App at any point in time. Shell has the right to amend the list of Shell Recharge charging stations (and all other charging stations displayed on the app without prior notice. All members of Shell Recharge App must be residing in India at the time of availing the benefits of products & services. All members of the App must have a valid mobile number & email id, which will act as their unique identifier. The benefits of Shell Recharge App are not transferable, cannot be copied and can only be used by the member registered with the App. Shell may decline to issue, withdraw or cancel user’s accounts, coupons, vouchers etc., in whatever form, and/or remove a member from the App at any time where there is reasonable belief of: any abuse or attempted abuse of the App including false reviews any breach or attempted breach of these terms and conditions; and/or any behaviour relating to the Shell Recharge or the Shell Group that involves theft, misconduct, abusive or offensive behaviour, or supplying false or misleading information; Shell reserves the right not to reopen the account to the member in case any of the aforesaid conditions are met. In case you notice unauthorised transactions on your account, please reach out to the Customer Service. The terms and conditions do not confer any enforceable rights on a person who is not party to the terms and conditions. Shell reserves the right to send SMS, Email & App push notifications 2. APP DETAILS The App makes available information with respect to Shell Recharge business which inter-alia includes the information regarding the EV charging station locations. The App also provides a cloud-based eco-system to improve the EV charging network of Shell & its partners. In addition, the App provides the facility to make payment towards the charging services that may be booked and utilized by the clients/customers of Shell. 3. THIRD PARTY SERVICES To promote the App, other member content may be displayed on other Apps, in applications, within emails, and in online and offline advertisements. The App may contain links to third-party Apps or resources (“Third-Party Services”). Such Third-Party Services may be subject to different terms and conditions and privacy practices. Shell is not responsible or liable for the availability or accuracy of such Third-Party Services, or the content, or services available from such Third-Party Services. Links to such Third-Party Services are not an endorsement by Shell of such Third-Party Services. 4. YOUR ACCOUNT You can become a member of the App by downloading Shell Recharge App on your mobile through App Store or Play Store, and registering for the App. You can start using the App, once all mandatory registration details are completed in full and submitted. Your mobile number & email id acts as a unique identifier, and therefore, multiple memberships with single mobile number and email id is not allowed. You shall ensure that a correct/ valid mobile phone number and email id is provided while registering. In case of incorrect mobile number and/or email id is provided, Shell shall not be responsible for the charging related services to the membership account thus created. ·You must keep Shell informed of any changes to the information submitted. In case you would like to change your registered mobile number or email id, you must reach out to the Customer Service. If you register with a new number or email id, a new membership account will be opened, and Shell will be unable to transfer any previously linked Wallet. You are expected to always maintain minimum wallet balance of INR 100 at any given point. You have to ensure availability of required wallet balance to start charging your vehicle, in absence of which you won’t be able to charge your vehicle. As and when an account is created by you, you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality and security of your User Account credentials and may not disclose your credentials to any third party. You are liable for any and all activities conducted through your User Account. All payments received pursuant to the use of the User Account shall be deemed to have been paid by the you shall be considered as a genuine consideration and Shell shall not be responsible or liable for any refunds due to any fraudulent charges. You can choose to leave the membership by contacting our customer service team which can be reached on 011-408-49548 For resolving any query on unused wallet balance, please connect with the customer service team which can be reached on 011-408-49548 Shell reserves the right in its sole discretion to suspend and/or terminate your account and/or access to the App and any associated Shell App, Shell Recharge website and/ or any functionalities thereof, delete your profile and any of your User Generated Content and/or restrict your use of all or any part of the Shell App, Shell Recharge website at any time, for any or no reason, without notice and without any liability to Shell or anyone else for any breach of these terms and conditions and/or applicable laws or even otherwise. After any line of action, as aforesaid, you are not allowed to create a new account to circumvent the termination, deletion or restriction. You understand and agree that some of your User Generated Content may continue to appear on or be part of Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App, Shell Recharge website or may persist in backup copies for a reasonable period of time even after your account and/or access to Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App, Shell Recharge website is terminated. These Terms and Conditions shall remain in effect even after your account and/or access to Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App, Shell Recharge website is terminated. 5. ACCESS TO THE APP/ PLATFORM, APP FEATURES Due to the nature of the Internet, Shell cannot guarantee the continuous and uninterrupted availability and accessibility of the App. Shell may restrict the availability of the App or certain areas or features thereof, if this is necessary in view of capacity limits, the security or integrity of the servers, or to carry out maintenance measures that ensure the proper or improved functioning of the App. Shell may improve, enhance and modify the App and introduce new services from time to time. Shell may make access to and use of the App, or certain areas or features of the App, subject to certain conditions or requirements, such as completing a verification process, linked to your mobile phone or any other verification processes. User verification on the Internet is difficult and Shell does not assume any responsibility for the confirmation of a user’s identity. The access to or use of certain areas and features, the App may be subject to separate policies, standards or guidelines, or may require that you accept additional terms and conditions. If there is a conflict between these Terms and terms and conditions applicable to a specific area or feature of the App, the latter terms and conditions will take precedence with respect to your access to or use of that area or feature, unless specified otherwise. · Shell reserves the right to modify these Terms at any time in accordance with this provision. If Shell makes changes to these Terms, Shell will post the revised Terms on the App. You understand and agree that your continued access to or use of the App will constitute acceptance of the revised Terms. As a host or a distributor, upon visiting the App, if you wish to register yourself with Shell, separate terms and conditions shall apply when such provision for registration, for either becoming a host or for getting the distributorship are provided on the App. 6. LICENSE TO USE THE APP/ PLATFORM AND YOUR CONDUCT You as an user, can leave a public review (“Review”) and submit a star rating (“Rating”) about your experience of the App/ and or the Services and/or the vendors. Ratings and Reviews are not verified by App for accuracy and may be incorrect or misleading. Ratings and Reviews however must be as accurate and may not contain any offensive or defamatory. Shell reserves the right to examine the ratings and reviews and take necessary actions in case it is inaccurate, misleading or offensive in nature. You are solely responsible for compliance with any and all laws, rules, regulations, and tax obligations that may apply to your use of the App. In connection with your use of the App, you will not and will not assist or enable others to: breach or circumvent any applicable laws or regulations, agreements with third-parties, third-party rights, or our Terms and Conditions; use, display, mirror or frame the App or any individual element within the App, Shell's name, any Shell trademark, logo or other proprietary information, or the layout and design of any page or form contained on a page on the App, without Shell's express written consent; dilute, tarnish or otherwise harm the Shell brand in any way, including through unauthorized use, registering and/or using Shell or derivative terms in domain names, trade names, trademarks or other source identifiers, or registering and/or using domains names, trade names, trademarks or other source identifiers that closely imitate or are confusingly similar to Shell’s domains, trademarks, taglines, or promotional campaigns; use any robots, spider, crawler, scraper or other automated means or processes to access, collect data or other content from or otherwise interact with the App for any purpose; avoid, bypass, remove, deactivate, impair, descramble, or otherwise attempt to circumvent any technological measure implemented by Shell or any of Shell's providers or any other third party to protect the App; take any action that damages or adversely affects, or could damage or adversely affect the performance or proper functioning of the App; violate or infringe anyone else’s rights or otherwise cause harm to anyone. Shell may immediately, without notice, terminate this Agreement and/or stop providing access to the App if (i) you have materially breached your obligations under these Terms, the payments terms, our Policies, (ii) you have violated applicable laws, regulations or third party rights, or (iii) Shell believes in good faith that such action is reasonably necessary to protect the personal safety or property of Shell and its App visitors, its other users and clients. If you choose to use the App, you do so voluntarily and at your sole risk. The App is provided “as is”, without warranty of any kind, either express or implied. As a user of the App, you shall always input true and correct information about yourself. You understand and agree that Shell does not claim any responsibility for the information that is provided by you. The entire responsibility of checking and adhering to the availability of the EV charging stations lies with the User. If Shell chooses to conduct identity verification or background checks on any user, to the extent permitted by applicable law, Shell disclaims warranties of any kind, either express or implied, that such checks will identify prior misconduct by a guest or guarantee that a guest will not engage in misconduct in the future. You assume full responsibility for the choices you make before, during and after your use of the App. The foregoing disclaimers apply to the maximum extent permitted by law. You may have other statutory rights. However, the duration of statutorily required warranties, if any, shall be limited to the maximum extent permitted by law. You acknowledge and agree that, to the maximum extent permitted by law, the entire risk arising out of your access to and use of the App, and/or use of services via the App or any other interaction you have with Shell’s personnel whether in person or online remains with you. Neither Shell nor any other party involved in creating, producing, or delivering the App will be liable for any incidental, special, exemplary or consequential damages, including lost profits, loss of data or loss of goodwill, service interruption, computer damage or system failure or the cost of substitute products or services, or for any damages for personal or bodily injury or emotional distress arising out of or in connection with (i) these Terms, and (ii) from the use of or inability to use the App. In no event will Shell’s aggregate liability arising out of or in connection with these Terms and your use of the App including, but not limited to, payment of the charges for the services provided and/or any other applicable charges via the App, or from the use of or inability to use the App, exceed the amounts you have paid via the App. You agree to release, defend (at Shell’s option), indemnify, and hold Shell and its affiliates and subsidiaries, including but not limited to, its officers, directors, employees and agents, harmless from and against any claims, liabilities, damages, losses, and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable legal fees, arising out of or in any way connected with (i) your breach of these Terms or our Policies, (ii) your improper use of the App, or (iii) your breach of any laws, regulations or third party rights. You and Shell mutually agree that any dispute, claim or controversy arising out of or relating to these Terms or the breach, termination, enforcement or interpretation thereof, or to the use of the App, (collectively, “Disputes”) will be settled by arbitration. The Arbitration shall be carried out under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 as per the then prevailing Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. The seat / venue of arbitration shall be New Delhi. The sole arbitrator shall be appointed as per the then prevailing Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. You and Shell each agree that the following claims are exceptions to the Arbitration Agreement and will be brought in a judicial proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction: (i) Any claim related to actual or threatened infringement, misappropriation or violation of Shell’s copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents, or other intellectual property rights; (ii) Any claim seeking emergency injunctive relief based on exigent circumstances (e.g., imminent danger or commission of a crime, hacking, cyber-attack). These terms shall be governed by the laws of India, and the courts in New Delhi shall have the exclusive jurisdiction over the matters pertaining to these Terms. We welcome and encourage you to provide feedback, comments and suggestions for improvements to the App (“Feedback“). You may submit Feedback by emailing us, through the “Contact” section of the App, or by other means of communication. Any Feedback you submit to us will be considered non-confidential and non-proprietary to you. By submitting Feedback to us, you grant us a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, irrevocable, sub-licensable, perpetual license to use and publish those ideas and materials for any purpose, without compensation to you. Except as they may be supplemented by additional terms and conditions, policies, guidelines or standards, these Terms constitute the entire Agreement between Shell and you pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and supersede any and all prior oral or written understandings or agreements between Shell and you in relation to the access to and use of the App. No joint venture, partnership, employment, or agency relationship exists between you and Shell as a result of this Agreement or your use of the App. These Terms do not and are not intended to confer any rights or remedies upon any person other than the parties. If any provision of these Terms is held to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be struck and will not affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions. Shell’s failure to enforce any right or provision in these Terms will not constitute a waiver of such right or provision unless acknowledged and agreed to by Shell in writing. Except as expressly set forth in these Terms, the exercise by either party of any of its remedies under these Terms will be without prejudice to its other remedies under these Terms or otherwise permitted under law. Shell makes no representation that the App operates (or is legally permitted to operate) in all geographic areas, or that the Information, App, or services are appropriate or available for use in other locations. Accessing the App from territories where the App or any Information or functionality of the App or portion thereof is illegal is expressly prohibited. Any access of the App and the Information thereof by the User from any prohibited jurisdiction is at the entire risk and cost of the User and Shell shall not be responsible for such access. The User shall always be responsible for his own compliance of the applicable laws. 7. SERVICES ON THE APP/ PLATFORM This Platform facilitates customers to avail any /or all of the services listed hereunder: EV charging services “EV Charging Services” refers to all the services offered to the Customer by the Service Provider, including the aspects of access to EV Charging Stations, undertaking charging and information provided on platform authorised by Service Provider to locate EV Charging Stations. For any customer who has entered into a separate Agreement with the Service Provider, all the Terms and conditions of charging service shall be governed by such Agreement between the customer and the Service Provider. For the customers who have not entered into a separate Agreement with Service Provider, following conditions should be adhered while availing the service- Customer shall install and use, the mobile application(s), as suggested by Service Provider, on their respective mobile phone / device which shall enable them to locate the nearest EV Charging Station for availing the EV Charging Services. EV Charging Services shall be made available for the Customer only after sufficient balance is maintained in the Wallet as mentioned in the platform. Service Provider shall have the right to revise the price of EV Charging services and/or the method of computation of EV Charging Service Charges payable by Customer from time to time. Any modification in the price of EV Charging services shall be communicated via Platform. Service Provider shall issue tax invoice under the provisions of GST Law for the above EV Charging Service Invoice shall be stored for a period as per legal/regulatory norms The app will provide a wallet which will be used for payment of any EV Charging Services availed through the App. You are required to pre-load the wallet with the required amount (while following the guidelines on the minimum required balance given in this terms and conditions) to avail the EV charging services. Multiple modes of payment to load the wallet have been provided. Applicable charges as per the payment gateway would be charged while loading the wallet. The Wallet would be used for payment for the following EV Charging Services. Shell reserves the right to vary, add and amend the list of services for which the wallet has to be used: EV Charging – payment per unit after charging session is completed Booking Fee – Might have to be introduced which in case of cancellation may be retained. Parking Fee – Might have to be introduced to curb overstay at the EV charging location 8. YOUR ELECTRIC VEHICLE To avail the EV charging services on the platform, you are required to add your Electric Vehicle(s) in your account. In case, You have more than one electric vehicles, you can attach all the vehicles to your account. Based on your current location or any other location as entered by you in the platform, the Platform will indicate the nearby charging station offered by Service Provider. You can select the charging station and reserve the charging session or can directly visit the station and avail charging services based on availability of charger at the station. All the chargers present in the network shall be visible on the platform. Any charger, which is not available for charging due to prebooking or maintenance issue will also be indicated on the platform. No booking shall be allowed for any charger that is not available at the time of booking. 9. CHARGING SERVICES You need to maintain a minimum balance in your Wallet as mentioned in the platform, only then charging services can be availed Ability to select charging duration/percentage/units will depend on type of charger The estimated prices for a charging session may vary depending on vehicle type 10. CONTRACT BETWEEN YOU AND SERVICE PROVIDER · Your request to avail services on the Platform is an offer to avail the services from charging station. · When you place a request to avail the services on the Platform, subject to availability and payment for the Services, you will receive a notification confirming receipt of your order containing the details of your order. 11. PRICING & PAYMENTS Service Price can be dynamic and maximum anticipated price for the service over and above minimum wallet balance needs to be ensured at the time of placing charging order. There might be difference between estimated and actual costs based on units, vehicle type, battery condition etc Pricing options are visible in platform and are updated from time to time. Pay per use plan shall be based on the energy consumed or time of charging or percentage of charging. Before the initiation of your charging session via Shell Recharge App, you will be informed about the estimated amount for the charging session based on your inputs. Basis the actual charging data, the final amount will be deducted from your wallet after the charging session ends. The final amount may be different from the estimated amount depending on the exact units charged. You remain liable for all session fees initiated through your account on the App. After availing the service, based on actual amount incurred, amount shall be deducted from the wallet. All prices are inclusive of VAT/CST, Goods and Services Tax ("GST"), duties and cesses as applicable – unless stated otherwise. You shall be making the payment only through the wallet created in the platform for you, at the time of registration for placement of order. Customer shall ensure maintenance of minimum balance required for availing the service. Platform will be accepting the payment through the integrated payment gateways into the wallet only. Upon making payment on the App, You shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the payment gateway in addition to the terms stated herein. As a general rule, Shell is not bound to make any refunds for the amount of consideration already paid by you. 12. REFUND If you wish to submit a complaint regarding a particular transaction charged to your Shell Recharge Account, you have to notify Shell within 7 days of the date of the transaction by writing to us at shellrechargeindia@shell.com. The complaint should clearly indicate the type of error and date of transaction.. Customer may be entitled to a refund up to 100% of the transaction value due to a cause attributable to Shell, however such refunds will be assessed on a case to case basis by Shell under sole discretion of Shell. Shell will refund the claimed amount in full or partially, as may be applicable, upon receipt of an application with valid accompanying documentary evidence from you. This will be evaluated on a case to case basis under sole discretion of Shell. All decisions with respect to refunds will be at the sole discretion of Shell and in accordance with Shell Recharge’s internal refund policy and the same shall be final and binding. All refunds initiated by Shell Recharge shall be refunded to the financial source account from which, the customer has initiated the transaction on the platform. Shell shall not issue any refunds if the transaction involves any fraudulent mode that is illegal or violative of the Terms of Use or legal guidelines laid down by the government of India. 13. TAXES You shall be responsible for payment of all fees/costs/charges associated with the Services from Service Provider(s) and you agree to bear any and all applicable taxes including but not limited to VAT/CST, Goods and Services Tax (“GST”), duties and cesses etc. 14. DATA PROTECTION As a member of Shell Recharge App, any information shared by you is governed by the Shell Recharge App Privacy Notice. The Privacy Notice (which can be accessed in the Account section of the app) describes how Shell manages your data in accordance with the law. 15. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY You are responsible for the accuracy of the information that you enter or submit to become a part of the App. While Shell does its best to ensure that any information provided to become a part of the App is correct at the time of inclusion, Shell cannot guarantee the accuracy of such information. Shell disclaims all warranties, express or implied, regarding your participation in the App and your any associated operation and use of the App You understand and agree that your participation in the App and your any associated operation and use of Shell App/ Shell Recharge App is at done at your own risk, cost and consequence and that you are solely responsible for any damage suffered by you or any 3rd party as a result of your participation in the App and your any associated operation and use of Shell App/ Shell Recharge App Shell will not be liable for any loss/damage occurred while using third party charge point operators (which are in agreement with Shell) displayed on the App. The App is only a facilitator for the transaction between the user and the third party charge point operator and would undertake no responsibility of the charging infrastructure and charging session conducted at the third party location. Shell shall under no circumstances whatsoever be liable to you or any 3rd party, whether in equity, contract, tort (including negligence), breach of statutory duty or otherwise, arising under or in connection with your participation in the App and your any associated operation and use of Shell App/ Shell Recharge App for: loss of actual or anticipated profit, sales, savings, use, business, business opportunity or revenue; losses caused by business interruption; loss of goodwill or reputation; loss or corruption of data, information or software; or any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage suffered even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by you and/or Shell. 16. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY You acknowledge and agree that the App and the content available on the App, including all associated intellectual property rights, are the exclusive property of Shell. You will not remove, alter or obscure any copyright, trademark, service mark or other proprietary rights notices incorporated in or accompanying the App. All trademarks, service marks, logos, trade names, and any other source identifiers of Shell used on or in connection with the App.. Trademarks, service marks, logos, trade names and any other proprietary designations of third parties used on or in connection with the App are used for identification purposes only and may be the property of their respective owners. You will not use, copy, adapt, modify, prepare derivative works of, distribute, license, sell, transfer, publicly display, publicly perform, transmit, broadcast or otherwise exploit the App. No licenses or rights are granted to you by implication or otherwise under any intellectual property rights owned or controlled by Shell or its licensors, except for the licenses and rights expressly granted in these Terms. All intellectual property contained in or on Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App is owned by Shell or its licensors. All content in the Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App including, but not limited to, text, software, scripts, code, designs, graphics, photos, sounds, music, videos, interactive features and all other content (“Content”) is a collective work under applicable copyright laws and is the proprietary property of Shell. Shell reserves all of its rights in respect of the IPR contained in the Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App and in respect of the Content. In particular, Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App contains trademarks including, but not limited to, the mark "Shell" and the Shell emblem. All trademarks included as part of Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App are owned by Shell Brands International AG(SBI) or its licensors. Shell reserves all of its rights in respect of the trademarks included as part of Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App Nothing in these Terms and Conditions or otherwise shall be interpreted as granting to you any license of IPR owned by Shell, SBI or its licensors. 17. USER GENERATED CONTENT “User Generated Content” is any content such as communications, information, messages, photographs, music, videos, designs, graphics, App links, data, profiles that you and/or other members post or otherwise make available on or through Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App, except to the extent that such content is owned by or licensed to Shell. You are solely responsible for your User Generated Content, your interactions with other members and in general, your overall activity in the Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App and Shell shall not have any liability whatsoever for any user generated content. You agree not to post any content or make any communications which may expose Shell or any of other member of Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App to harm or liability of any type. You agree not to post or submit User Generated Content, or a link to an App, which, is illegal, fraudulent, deceptive, misleading, libellous, infringing, harassing, hateful, threatening, abusive, pornographic, offensive or is otherwise objectionable. You confirm that you own or control all rights in any User Generated Content that you post or submit on Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App. You agree not to submit User Generated Content unless you are the owner or have permission of the owner to post such User Generated Content. You confirm not to post photos or videos of another person or showing another person without that person´s permission. Your User Generated Content is not confidential or proprietary. You grant, and warrant that you have the right to grant to Shell a non-exclusive, non-revocable, worldwide, transferable, royalty-free, perpetual right to use your User Generated Content in any manner of media now or later developed for any purpose, commercial, advertising or otherwise, including the right to translate, display, reproduce, modify, create derivative work, sub-license, distribute, assign and commercialize without any payment due to you. Shell Reserves the rights to delete, remove and share with any authorities in case the user generated content is illegal, fraudulent, deceptive, misleading, libellous, infringing, harassing, hateful, threatening, abusive, pornographic, offensive or is otherwise objectionable. Should any part of Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App offer you the opportunity to join in or read from a forum, please be aware that any communications posted on the forum represent the views of the individual who posted such communication and are not to be taken as the views of Shell. Do not use or become member of Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App or any functionality thereof for any commercial purpose. Do not post any User Generated Content that includes “junk mail”, “chain letters”, “pyramid schemes” or other forms of solicitation. Do not use automated scripts to collect information from Shell Recharge App and any associated Shell App/ Shell Recharge App. Do not provide any false personal information about yourself. You confirm not to create more than one Shell account, create a Shell account on behalf of another individual, group or entity, or transfer your profile or account. Do not use or try to use another person's account, username or password. Shell reserves the right to monitor any information transmitted or received through any forum provided, and, at its sole discretion and without prior notice, to review, remove or otherwise block any material posted and share with relevant authorities. Shell has no obligation to prescreen, monitor, edit or remove User Generated Content and assumes no responsibility for User Generated Content, even where it chooses to carry out prescreening, monitoring, editing or removal of User Generated Content. 18. INDEMNITY You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Shell, SBI, its affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, licensors and suppliers from and against all claims, losses, liabilities, expenses, damages and costs, including, without limitation, legal costs arising from or relating in any way to your User Generated Content, your participation in Shell Recharge App, any associated downloading / usage of Shell App/ Shell Recharge App or any violation of these Terms and Conditions of Use, any law or the rights of any third party. 19. EXTERNAL APPS OR APPLICATIONS Shell Recharge App may include links to external Apps or applications. When you follow such links the external App or application may appear as a full screen or in some cases it may appear within the frame of Shell App/ Shell Recharge App. These links are provided in order to help you find relevant Apps, applications, services and/or products which may be of interest to you quickly and easily. It is your responsibility to decide whether any services and/or products available through any of these Apps or applications are suitable for your purposes. Shell is never to be construed as recommending to you to avail any services and/or products available through any of these Apps or applications. Shell is not responsible for the owners or operators of these applications or Apps or for any goods or services they supply or for the content of their Apps or applications and does not give or enter into any conditions, warranties or other terms or representations in relation to any of these or accept any liability in relation to any of these (including any liability arising out of any claim that the content of any external App or application to which Shell App/ Shell Recharge App includes a link infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party). 20. USER RESTRICTIONS AND ACCESS The app intends/targets users who are of at least 18 years. For any exceptions users may refer to our Privacy Notice In order to use certain current or future functionalities of this App, you may be required to register or sign in as a Shell loyalty customer or to create an account. Be aware that the use of some of the functionalities of this App require access to the Internet. 21. ACCEPTABLE USE 21.1 You may: (a) access any part of the App and (b) print off one copy of any or all of the pages for your own personal non-commercial use. 21.2 You may not: (a) copy (whether by printing off onto paper, storing on disk, downloading or in any other way), distribute (including distributing copies), broadcast, alter or tamper with in any way or otherwise use any material contained in the App (including User Generated Content, unless it is your own User Generated Content that you legally post to the App or associated forum) except as set out under Clause 21.1 above. These restrictions apply in relation to all or part of the Content; (b) remove any copyright, trade mark or other intellectual property notices contained in the original material from any material copied or printed off from the App; (c) link to the App; (d) use the App (or any part of it) in any unlawful manner, for any unlawful purpose, or in any manner inconsistent with these Terms and Conditions of Use, or act fraudulently or maliciously, for example, by hacking into or inserting malicious codes, including viruses, or harmful data, into the App or any operating system; (e) use the App in a way which could damage, disable, overburden, impair or compromise Shell’s systems or security or interfere with other users; (f) collect or harvest any information or data from the App or our systems or attempt to decipher any transmissions to or from the servers running any part of the App; or (g) change or delete any ownership notices from materials downloaded or printed from the App; (h) circumvent or modify any App security technology or software, without Shell’s express written consent. 21.3 If you wish to provide a hypertext or other link to this App, please email SITI-MLM-Support@shell.com with details of: (a) the URL(s) of the web page(s) from which you are proposing to link to this App; and (b) the URL(s) of the web page(s) on this App to which you are proposing to link. 21.4 Shell may, at its sole discretion, agree to or reject any request made in accordance with Clause 21.3 above. Shell has no obligation to agree to any such request or to provide any reason for accepting to rejecting any such request. 22. MOBILE SERVICES The use of the App is for free but be aware that your carrier´s normal rates apply. The App contains services and features that are available to certain mobile Devices. By using the App, you agree that we may communicate with you by electronic means to your mobile Device and that certain information about your use of these services may be shared with us. If you change or deactivate your mobile phone number, you have to immediately update your account information to ensure that we don't send your messages to the person who acquired your old number. 23. SECURITY If you choose or are provided with a username, password or any other piece of information as part of Shell’s security procedures, you must treat such information as confidential and you must not disclose it to any third party nor allow any unauthorized person access to the App under your username and/or password. You are responsible for any actions that take place while using your App account or while using the App via your Device and Shell is not responsible for any loss that results from the unauthorized use of your username and/or password, with or without your knowledge. 24. CHANGES TO/OPERATION OF THE APP Shell may change the format and content of all or any part of this App at any time, including but not limited to removal of features or functionalities in the App. Shell may suspend the operation of this App, or of certain of its features or functionalities, for support or maintenance work, in order to update the content or for any other reason. Updates to the App may be issued from time to time through the Appstore or Google Play. Depending on the update, you may not be able to use all or part of the App until you have downloaded the latest version of the App and accepted any new terms. 25. TRANSFER OF RIGHTS Shell may transfer its rights and obligations under these Terms and Conditions of Use to any affiliate of Shell. Any such transfer will not affect your rights or Shell’s obligations under these Terms and Conditions of Use. 26. DISCLAIMERS Shell voluntarily procures Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) to match it with the electricity procured for sale through Shell Recharge sites. Shell does not commit to fulfill any claim or liabilities of its customers in relation to the transferability of the green attribute of the transaction. Ultra-fast charging is available only for 4 wheelers. Charging speed depends on several factors including ambient temperature, type of car, size of battery and battery condition. Results may vary, no guarantees are provided. Please check with your OEM for compatibility and further information. “Refresh yourself while charging your vehicle” is applicable only for the Shell Recharge stations located at Shell Retail sites. Due to government norms, the shops and café might not be operating for 24X7. 24X7 customer support service will be unavailable on the government notified public holidays. Shell doesn’t take any responsibilities if the services are unavailable/ stopped due to technical issue(s). 27. COMPLAINTS PROCEDURE If you have a question or complaint about this App, please email shellrechargeindia@shell.com 28. OVERRIDING EFFECT Notwithstanding anything contained herein above, for any customer who has entered into a separate agreement with the Service Provider/Shell regarding the services available on the App, all the terms and conditions as specified in such agreement shall prevail over these terms and conditions in the event of any contradiction/inconsistency. Visit a Shell station Scan your QR code Fill up and shop Receive Go+ points Redeem Go+ points for exciting rewards Rewards that keep on coming Make your journeys more rewarding with Shell Asia App. Just scan your app with every purchase, and you can collect and activate rewards from your phone. It’s easy! Good things happen when you Shell Go+ it. Get the app on Google Play Get the app on App Store Shell Go+ India Terms and Conditions Shell fuels Find out more about our new Shell Fuels. Shell engine oils and lubricants Shell is the number one global lubricant supplier and has a 70-year history of innovation. Explore Shell’s range of engine oils and lubricants for cars, motorcycles, trucks and more. Shell go+ program terms & conditionsThe following Terms & Conditions govern the Shell GO+ programme for users registered through Shell Asia app (herein after called App or app), and issued by Shell India Markets Private Limited (Shell) to the members or users of Shell Go+ programme.In this document, GO+ will refer to the use of products and schemes available through Shell App, unless otherwise specified. 1. GENERAL The mentioned terms and conditions are applicable across the entire Shell GO+ Scheme. Any participation and use of the GO+ is considered as acceptance of these. Shell reserves the right to vary, add, or amend the Terms and Conditions including but not limited to usage of GO+, reward earning, reward redemption etc. Terms and Conditions, as amended, varied or supplemented from time to time, supersede any earlier terms and conditions issued by Shell. Shell can cancel, withdraw, alter or close registration for the rewards scheme at any point in time Shell has the right to amend the list of participating sites without any prior notice. All members of GO+ must be residing in India at the time of availing the scheme. All members of GO+ must be aged 18 years or above. All members of GO+ must have a valid mobile number, which will act as their unique identifier. The GO+ programme is not transferable, cannot be copied and can only be used by the member who is registered for the program. The rewards & benefits of this GO+ programme is not transferable to other programs run by Shell in India or globally. Members can only use their account (with phone no registered or linked to the App) and enjoy the App benefits in India. Shell may decline to issue, withdraw or cancel GO+ accounts, cards, coupons, vouchers and points, in whatever form, and/or remove a member from GO+ at any time where there is reasonable belief of any abuse or attempted abuse of the scheme; any breach or attempted breach of these terms and conditions; and/or any behaviour relating to the GO+ or the Shell Group that involves theft, misconduct, abusive or offensive behaviour, or supplying false or misleading information; Shell reserves the right not to reopen the account to the member in case any of the aforesaid conditions are met. In case you notice unauthorised transactions on your account, please reach out to our Customer Service. The terms and conditions do not confer any enforceable rights on a person who is not party to the terms and conditions. 2. REGISTRATION & CUSTOMER INFORMATION You can become a member of GO+ by downloading Shell App on your mobile through App Store or Play Store, and registering for Shell GO+ programme. You can start using your GO+ membership, once all mandatory registration details are completed in full and submitted. You can select your preferred mode of communication (i.e, via registered email id or registered mobile number or in-app push notification) while registering. Your mobile number acts as a unique identifier, and therefore, multiple memberships with single mobile number is not allowed. You shall ensure that a correct mobile phone number is provided while registering. Incase of incorrect mobile number is provided, Shell shall not be responsible for issue of points to the membership account thus created. Shell runs different schemes for certain set of Shell Go+ members from time to time. If you are eligible, you will receive unique Shell MemberPlus codes provided by Shell Retailers/ Dealers at Shell stations OR by Partners who have a tie up with Shell Mobility India. This code will enable you to receive special benefits under the Shell Go+ program. You must keep Shell informed of any changes to the information submitted. Shell cannot be held responsible for any loss of points or vouchers incurred, as a result of out-of-date information. In case you would like to change your registered mobile number, you must submit the change of Mobile number under Account section within the app, instead of opening a new membership account. If you register with a new number, a new membership account will be opened, and we will be unable to transfer any previously collected points to the new account. 3. EARNING POINTS GO+ is only applicable for purchases at participating sites as may be. Do check Shell App for information on presence of Shell Select, Deli2Go and delicafé at the participating sites. The schemes mentioned below are only applicable for GO+ customers holding an individual account. If you are a Fleet Solutions customer, please refer to the relevant section for details. You must present either your digital card or Physical card at the time of your purchase to earn points for the transaction undertaken. There will be no issuance of points for historical transactions. As a member, you can earn points from your personal purchases only. Points earned from the purchase of other customers, even if with the consent, may constitute as fraud. As an individual member, you will receive points based on purchase from participating sites as per the following criteria: Fuel (Petrol & Diesel) 5 points for every litre of Shell petrol or diesel purchased 10 points for every litre of Shell V-Power fuel purchased Advance Lubricants Range (for 2-wheelers) 50 points for every litre of Advance AX3 or Advance AX5 lubricants purchased 100 points for every litre of Advance AX7 lubricants purchased 400 points for every litre of Advance Ultra lubricants purchased Helix Lubricants Range (for 4-wheelers) 50 points for every litre of Helix HX3 and HX5 lubricants purchased 150 points for every litre of Helix HX7 lubricants purchased 600 points for every litre of Helix HX8, Helix Ultra, Power & Protect lubricants purchased Convenience Retail including Shell SELECT, deli2go and delicafé For every purchase of INR100 and above, you earn 1 point on purchase of every INR 5. No points will be awarded for purchases below INR100 for this category. No points will be awarded on purchase of tobacco products. As an individual customer, you can earn points on a maximum of 3 transactions per day, or a maximum spend of INR 10,000 per day. Any purchases which translate to a fraction of points earned would be rounded off to the lower whole number. e.g. 41.8 litres of V-Power will yield 410 points. Similarly, a purchase of INR 204 at Shell Select will earn you 40 points. Shell reserves the right to change the rate of awarding points, and the type of qualifying purchases, by giving you reasonable notice in writing (through Shell App, your email address or SMS) and/or highlighting the changes at participating sites. Shell has the discretion to add additional points to any customers’ GO+ account. Participating sites may also have seasonal offers, which will reward you with extra points for specific purchases. Details of these offers can be found on Shell App and the respective sites from time to time. In case you have two active offers on same product, offer with earlier expiry will be applied first. As a Shell Go+ member you can earn 250 points for referral. You can share the referral code present in your App with other individual who is not member of Shell Go+. The points will be awarded once the referred individual successfully transacts at least once at any Shell station upon registration. Shell reserves the right to not issue points in combination with other offers such as promotions or discounts, unless explicitly stated otherwise. No points will be awarded for the items purchased against redemption of points. Points earned in each transaction will be credited in real time and can be checked via the Shell App. However, in case of system delays the point balance will be updated within 24 hours from the time of transaction. 4. REDEEMING YOUR POINTS Accumulated points in the one account cannot be transferred or combined with any other account Points earned as part of GO+ scheme can be redeemed at participating sites as may be defined by Shell from time to time. Points earned cannot be redeemed for cash. Points redemption can only be availed by the member. GO+ catalogue is available on Shell App. You will be required to select the item you would like to redeem, and the same can be availed during the next transaction at participating sites. You cannot redeem more than 5 unique items from gift catalogue in one transaction Points once redeemed as part of a transaction cannot be reversed. Items purchased against points will not be refunded, returned, or exchanged. In case, you redeem the points for a fuel or non-fuel voucher, the total value of the voucher should be consumed in a single purchase. No cash back can be availed in case spend is less than the value of the voucher. In case of unavailability of redeemed item at a participating site, you may check for the same item at another participating site or may wait for that item to become available. Do check with the participating site if the item selected is part of the available items. You will have an option in the App to switch ON or switch OFF offers/ redeemed gift items within My card section by using Toggle functionality before your transaction at site. Currently you can Toggle ON or Toggle OFF all the same type of gift items simultaneously, irrespective of the number of quantities available. An offer or gift item or voucher can be availed only once every 24 hours from the time of previous transaction at the same Shell station. 5. SHELL V-POWER REWARDS The Shell V-Power Rewards Program is an annual program part of Shell GO+ programme (running from 1st January to 31st December every year) and it refers to the tier of membership allocated to the Shell V-Power customers by SIMPL basis rules and regulations of the Shell V-Power Rewards Program that are laid out by SIMPL from time to time. That is valid at all participating retail stations. Eligibility to join Shell V-Power rewards program requires a minimum fill of Shell V-Power in specific quantity during each qualifying period as follows: Member: Minimum 1 transaction of Shell V-Power in the qualifying period (Qualifying period is 1st Jan to 31st Dec 2023) Bronze tier: 50-99 litres of Shell V-Power Silver tier: 100 to 299 litres of Shell V-Power Gold tier: 300 litres and above of Shell V-Power Example: Members with purchase of Shell V-Power 100 litres of Shell V-Power starting from 1st Jan onwards will be automatically upgraded from Bronze to Silver tier. To progress to the next tier of membership, member must meet all qualifying factors for all each membership tier. For the next qualifying period, the entire program will be reset and customers need to again meet the minimum qualification to be part of a desired tier as mentioned in Point 1. Shell reserves the right to amend or add or remove any of the Tiers eligibility and rewards under each tier. Rewards/ bonus points/ discounts or any other reward subject to Shell’s discretion Upon reaching a Tier, for example bronze to silver, the bonus points on Shell V-Power purchases will be applicable as per new Tier only from next transaction. Upon reaching a Tier, for example bronze to silver, the discount offer on non-fuel purchases will be assigned as per new tier within a maximum of 7 days for a fixed validity period. A maximum of 2 transactions per day will be considered to earn bonus points and calculating the volume towards eligibility criteria. All the offers will have a validity period. Customer needs to check for the validity period on the offers section of the Shell Asia App. No two similar offers can be clubbed together (For example, if you have two offers of 10% off on vehicle care and 5% off on vehicle care, only one of the two offers will apply to the transaction). You can choose the offer you want to avail by using the Toggle on/off feature on the My Card section of the App. No two different offers can be availed on same product in one transaction (For example, if you have 10% off on deli2go and a free beverage offer for birthday, on the same product, only one of the two offers will be applied). You can choose the offer you want to avail by using the Toggle on/off feature on the My Card section of the App. Non-fuel purchase offers can be redeemed up to 6 times within the validity period under each Tier. Upon reaching Bronze Tier, customer will start earning 2X points (20 points per litre) only on Shell V-Power purchase from the next transaction of reaching Tier. Similarly, upon reaching Silver Tier, customer will start earning 3X points (30 points per litre) only on Shell V-Power purchase from the next transaction of reaching Tier and upon reaching Gold Tier, customer will start 4X points (40 points per litre) only on Shell V-Power purchase from the next transaction of reaching Tier. On every Thursday, customers are eligible to get bonus points as per following: Bronze Tier - 3X points / 30 points per litre of Shell V-Power Silver Tier - 4X points / 40 points per litre of Shell V-Power Gold Tier - 5X points / 50 points per litre of Shell V-Power The bonus points on every Thursday are only applicable on the first transaction of the day and only if Shell V-Power is part of that first transaction. Birthday Rewards will be on Shell’s discretion and may vary during the qualifying period. Birthday Reward offer will be assigned one day before the birth date of a member and will be valid for 7 days. Rewards upon reaching the next Tier may be on Shell’s discretion and may vary during the qualifying period. Validity for availing the Reward is 30 days. Shell V-Power Rewards Program membership is for individuals only - it is not a corporate membership. Misuse of Shell V-Power Rewards Program benefits may result in termination of Shell V-Power Rewards Program membership or withdrawal of benefits without prior intimation and at the sole discretion of SIMPL. Shell V-Power Rewards is not transferable. Shell V-Power Rewards Program membership can be revoked or refused if a Shell V-Power Rewards Program member is involved in any act of fraud, cheating with or without cause and without any notice. The Shell V-Power Rewards membership is valid till 31st Dec of every year from the date of enrolment/upgrade/renewal as reflected in the SIMPL system. Shell V-Power Rewards Reward Points should be redeemed within the validity period of Shell V-Power Rewards membership after which the Reward Points will automatically lapse. Certain reward points that may be earned or credited to members may have a different validity from the tier reward points and will lapse as per their validity and not membership validity of the member. Once Reward Points are redeemed or lapsed, they cannot be reinstated under any circumstances. Shell GO+ terms and conditions shall also apply 6. FLEET SOLUTIONS CUSTOMERS Customers who use Fleet Solutions card as a method of payment will not be eligible for benefits of the GO+ programme for that transaction. Please reach out to your Fleet Solutions Account Manager for more information. 7. ACCOUNT CLOSURE & POINTS EXPIRY You can choose to leave the programme/membership by contacting our customer service team which can be reached on +91 44 3099 1103 or +91 44 4344 2650. All the unused vouchers/ points shall be forfeited at the time of account closure. If an account is inactive for one year, Shell reserves the right to reset the points balance to zero for the account with immediate effect, and/or close the membership account with immediate effect The validity of points earned is 1 years, at the end of which same shall be expired. Shell reserves the right in its sole discretion to suspend and/or terminate your account and/or access to Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card or any functionalities thereof, delete your profile and any of your User Generated Content and/or restrict your use of all or any part of the Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card at any time, for any or no reason, without notice and without any liability to Shell or anyone else for any breach of these terms and conditions and/or applicable laws or even otherwise. After any line of action, as aforesaid, you are not allowed to create a new account to circumvent the termination, deletion or restriction. You understand and agree that some of your User Generated Content may continue to appear on or be part of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card or may persist in backup copies for a reasonable period of time even after your account and/or access to Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card is terminated. These Terms and Conditions shall remain in effect after your account and/or access to Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card is terminated. 8. DATA PROTECTION As a member of GO+, any information shared by you is governed by the GO+ Privacy Policy. The Privacy Policy (which can be accessed in the Account section of the app) describes how Shell manages your data in accordance with the law. Will receive periodic updates on your account, promotional offer and information on the programme. The communication will be through Shell App, your registered mobile number or your email address. You have the option to choose your preferred mode of communication. 9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY You are responsible for the accuracy of the information that you enter or submit to become a part of Shell GO+ programme. While Shell does its best to ensure that any information provided to become a part of Shell GO+ programme is correct at the time of inclusion, Shell cannot guarantee the accuracy of such information. Shell disclaims all warranties, express or implied, regarding your participation in the Shell GO+ programme and your any associated operation and use of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. You understand and agree that your participation in the Shell GO+ programme and your any associated operation and use of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card is at done at your own risk, cost and consequence and that you are solely responsible for any damage suffered by you or any 3rd party as a result of your participation in the Shell GO+ programme and your any associated operation and use of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. Shell shall under no circumstances whatsoever be liable to you or any 3rd party, whether in equity, contract, tort (including negligence), breach of statutory duty or otherwise, arising under or in connection with your participation in the Shell GO+ programme and your any associated operation and use of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card for: loss of actual or anticipated profit, sales, savings, use, business, business opportunity or revenue; losses caused by business interruption; loss of goodwill or reputation; loss or corruption of data, information or software; or any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage suffered even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by you and/or Shell. 10. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY All intellectual property contained in or on Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card is owned by Shell or its licensors. All content in the Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card including, but not limited to, text, software, scripts, code, designs, graphics, photos, sounds, music, videos, interactive features and all other content (“Content”) is a collective work under applicable copyright laws and is the proprietary property of Shell. Shell reserves all of its rights in respect of the IPR contained in the Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card and in respect of the Content. In particular, Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card contains trademarks including, but not limited to, the mark "Shell" and the Shell emblem. All trademarks included as part of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ cards are owned by Shell Brands International (SBI) or its licensors. Shell reserves all of its rights in respect of the trademarks included as part of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions or otherwise shall be interpreted as granting to you any license of IPR owned by Shell, SBI or its licensors. 11. USER GENERATED CONTENT “User Generated Content” is any content such as communications, information, messages, photographs, music, videos, designs, graphics, website links, data, profiles that you and/or other members post or otherwise make available on or through Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card, except to the extent that such content is owned by or licensed to Shell. You are solely responsible for your User Generated Content, your interactions with other members and in general, your overall activity in the Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card and Shell shall not have any liability whatsoever for any user generated content. You agree not to post any content or make any communications which may expose Shell or any of other member of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card to harm or liability of any type. You agree not to post or submit User Generated Content, or a link to a website, which, is illegal, fraudulent, deceptive, misleading, libellous, infringing, harassing, hateful, threatening, abusive, pornographic, offensive in a sexual, racial, cultural or ethnic consent or is otherwise objectionable. You confirm that you own or control all rights in any User Generated Content that you post or submit on Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. You agree not to submit User Generated Content unless you are the owner or have permission of the owner to post such User Generated Content. You confirm not to post photos or videos of another person or showing another person without that person´s permission. Your User Generated Content is not confidential or proprietary. You grant, and warrant that you have the right to grant to Shell a non-exclusive, non-revocable, worldwide, transferable, royalty-free, perpetual right to use your User Generated Content in any manner of media now or later developed for any purpose, commercial, advertising or otherwise, including the right to translate, display, reproduce, modify, create derivative work, sub-license, distribute, assign and commercialize without any payment due to you. Should any part of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card offer you the opportunity to join in or read from a forum, please be aware that any communications posted on the forum represent the views of the individual who posted such communication and are not to be taken as the views of Shell. Do not use or become member of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card or any functionality thereof for any commercial purpose. Do not post any User Generated Content that includes “junk mail”, “chain letters”, “pyramid schemes” or other forms of solicitation. Do not use automated scripts to collect information from Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. Do not provide any false personal information about yourself. You confirm not to create more than one Shell account, create a Shell account on behalf of another individual, group or entity, or transfer your profile or account. Do not use or try to use another person's account, username or password. Shell reserves the right to monitor any information transmitted or received through any forum provided, and, at its sole discretion and without prior notice, to review, remove or otherwise block any material posted. Shell has no obligation to prescreen, monitor, edit or remove User Generated Content and assumes no responsibility for User Generated Content, even where it chooses to carry out prescreening, monitoring, editing or removal of User Generated Content. 12. INDEMNITY You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Shell, SBI, its affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, licensors and suppliers from and against all claims, losses, liabilities, expenses, damages and costs, including, without limitation, legal costs arising from or relating in any way to your User Generated Content, your participation in Shell GO+ programme, any associated downloading / usage of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card or any violation of these Terms and Conditions of Use, any law or the rights of any third party. 13. EXTERNAL WEBSITES OR APPLICATIONS Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card may include links to external websites or applications. When you follow such links the external website or application may appear as a full screen or in some cases it may appear within the frame of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. These links are provided in order to help you find relevant websites, applications, services and/or products which may be of interest to you quickly and easily. It is your responsibility to decide whether any services and/or products available through any of these websites or applications are suitable for your purposes. Shell is never to be construed as recommending to you to avail any services and/or products available through any of these websites or applications. Shell is not responsible for the owners or operators of these applications or websites or for any goods or services they supply or for the content of their websites or applications and does not give or enter into any conditions, warranties or other terms or representations in relation to any of these or accept any liability in relation to any of these (including any liability arising out of any claim that the content of any external website or application to which Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card includes a link infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party). 14. GOVERNING LAW & DISPUTE RESOLUTION Your participation in Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card and these terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed and interpreted only in accordance with the laws of India. In the case of any dispute or claim arising out of or in connection with or relating to your participation in Shell GO+ programme and/or any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card and/or these terms and conditions, such dispute or claim shall be finally and exclusively settled by arbitration vide a sole arbitrator under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any other statutory modifications or re-enactments made thereof as per Rules of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. The sole arbitrator shall be appointed as per Rules of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. All Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in the English language and the seat/venue/place of arbitration shall be New Delhi only. Each Party shall co-operate in good faith to expedite (to the maximum extent practicable) the conduct of any arbitral proceedings commenced. Subject to aforesaid, the courts at New Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction. SHELL APPLICATION: GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF USE Please read these terms and conditions of use carefully before using this mobile application (the “App”). By accessing or using this App or any functionality thereof on any computer, mobile phone, tablet, console or other device (together “Devices” and each a “Device”), you confirm that you have read, understood and agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions of use and any other applicable law. If you do not agree to these terms and conditions of use, please do not access or use the App or any functionality thereof. Owner and operator information The App is owned and operated by Shell Information Technology International B.V., a company whose registered office is at Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, Den Haag, 2596 HR, The Netherlands (“SITI”). The App is provided in India by Shell India Markets Private Limited (“Shell”). For the purpose of these terms and conditions of use, any reference to “Shell”, “we” or “us” may be a reference to the Shell group of companies in general, or to any one company within the Shell group of companies if no useful purpose is served by identifying that specific company. User Restrictions and Access This App is intended for motorists only and may not be used by any person who is not legally entitled to drive a motor vehicle. It should not under any circumstances be accessed or used whilst driving. In order to use certain current or future functionalities of this App, you may be required to register or sign in as a Shell loyalty customer or to create an account. Be aware that the use of some of the functionalities of this App require access to the Internet. Acceptable use You may: access any part of the App (save that only Shell loyalty customers will be able to access the loyalty function(s) within the App); and print off one copy of any or all of the pages for your own personal non-commercial use. You may not: copy (whether by printing off onto paper, storing on disk, downloading or in any other way), distribute (including distributing copies), broadcast, alter or tamper with in any way or otherwise use any material contained in the App (including User Generated Content, unless it is your own User Generated Content that you legally post to the App or associated forum) except as set out under Clause 3.1 above. These restrictions apply in relation to all or part of the Content; remove any copyright, trade mark or other intellectual property notices contained in the original material from any material copied or printed off from the App; link to the App; use the App (or any part of it) in any unlawful manner, for any unlawful purpose, or in any manner inconsistent with these Terms and Conditions of Use, or act fraudulently or maliciously, for example, by hacking into or inserting malicious codes, including viruses, or harmful data, into the App or any operating system; use the App in a way which could damage, disable, overburden, impair or compromise Shell’s systems or security or interfere with other users; collect or harvest any information or data from the App or our systems or attempt to decipher any transmissions to or from the servers running any part of the App; or change or delete any ownership notices from materials downloaded or printed from the App; circumvent or modify any App security technology or software, without Shell’s express written consent. If you wish to provide a hypertext or other link to this App, please email SITI-MLM-Support@shell.com with details of: the URL(s) of the web page(s) from which you are proposing to link to this App; and the URL(s) of the web page(s) on this App to which you are proposing to link. Shell may, at its sole discretion, agree to or reject any request made in accordance with Clause 3.3 above. Shell has no obligation to agree to any such request or to provide any reason for accepting to rejecting any such request. Loyalty Program Terms and Conditions If the Loyalty Program is made available in India and you register for the Loyalty Program through the App or log into the loyalty functionality of the App then your use of the loyalty card and participation in the Loyalty Program will also be subject to the Loyalty Program Terms and Conditions. Mobile Services The use of the App is for free but be aware that your carrier´s normal rates apply. The App contains services and features that are available to certain mobile Devices. By using the App, you agree that we may communicate with you by electronic means to your mobile Device and that certain information about your use of these services may be shared with us. If you change or deactivate your mobile phone number, you have to immediately update your account information to ensure that we don't send your messages to the person who acquired your old number. User Generated Content “User Generated Content” is any content such as communications, information, messages, photographs, music, videos, designs, graphics, website links, data, profiles that you and/or other App users post or otherwise make available on or through the App, except to the extent that such content is owned by or licensed to Shell. You are solely responsible for your User Generated Content, your interactions with other users of the App and your activity on the App. You agree not to post any content or make any communications which may expose Shell or any of the App’s users to harm or liability of any type. You agree not to post or submit User Generated Content, or a link to a website, which, is illegal, fraudulent, deceptive, misleading, libelous, infringing, harassing, hateful, threatening, abusive, pornographic, offensive in a sexual, racial, cultural or ethnic consent or is otherwise objectionable. You confirm that you own or control all rights in any User Generated Content that you post or submit on or through the App. You agree not to submit User Generated Content unless you are the owner or have permission of the owner to post such User Generated Content. You confirm not to post photos or videos of another person or showing another person without that person´s permission. Your User Generated Content is not confidential or proprietary. You grant, and warrant that you have the right to grant to Shell a non-exclusive, non-revocable, worldwide, transferable, royalty-free, perpetual right to use your User Generated Content in any manner of media now or later developed for any purpose, commercial, advertising or otherwise, including the right to translate, display, reproduce, modify, create derivative work, sub-license, distribute, assign and commercialize without any payment due to you. Should any part of this App offer you the opportunity to join in or read from a forum, please be aware that any communications posted on the forum represent the views of the individual who posted such communication and are not to be taken as the views of Shell. Do not use this App or any functionality thereof for any commercial purpose. Do not post any User Generated Content that includes “junk mail”, “chain letters”, “pyramid schemes” or other forms of solicitation. Do not use automated scripts to collect information from this App. Do not provide any false personal information about yourself. You confirm not to create more than one Shell account, create a Shell account on behalf of another individual, group or entity, or transfer your profile or account. Do not use or try to use another person's account, username or password. Shell reserves the right to monitor any information transmitted or received through any forum provided, and, at its sole discretion and without prior notice, to review, remove or otherwise block any material posted. Shell has no obligation to prescreen, monitor, edit or remove User Generated Content and assumes no responsibility for User Generated Content, even where it chooses to carry out prescreening, monitoring, editing or removal of User Generated Content. Indemnification You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Shell, its affiliates, including SITI and other affiliates of Royal Dutch Shell plc, officers, directors, employees, agents, licensors and suppliers from and against all claims, losses, liabilities, expenses, damages and costs, including, without limitation, legal costs arising from or relating in any way to your User Generated Content, your use of Content, your use of the App or any violation of these Terms and Conditions of Use, any law or the rights of any third party. Security If you choose or are provided with a username, password or any other piece of information as part of Shell’s security procedures, you must treat such information as confidential and you must not disclose it to any third party nor allow any unauthorized person access to the App under your username and/or password. You are responsible for any actions that take place while using your App account or while using the App via your Device and Shell is not responsible for any loss that results from the unauthorized use of your username and/or password, with or without your knowledge. Intellectual Property Rights (“IPR”) All intellectual property contained in or on the App (except for User Generated Content) is owned by Shell or its licensors, including SITI. All content in the App (except for User Generated Content) including, but not limited to, text, software, scripts, code, designs, graphics, photos, sounds, music, videos, interactive features and all other content (“Content”) is a collective work under applicable copyright laws and is the proprietary property of Shell. Shell reserves all its rights in respect of the IPR contained in the App and in respect of the Content. This App contains trademarks including, but not limited to, the mark "Shell" and the Shell emblem. All trademarks included on this App are owned by Shell Brands International AG, an affiliate of SITI and Shell, or its licensors. Shell reserves all of its rights in respect of the trademarks included on this App. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions of Use shall be interpreted as granting to you any license of IPR owned by Shell, SITI, Shell Brands International AG or its licensors. Data Protection and Privacy Policy Personal details and other information relating to you provided to any Shell company through this App will only be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Please read this carefully before continuing. By downloading the App you are consenting to use of this information in accordance with our Privacy Policy, which is incorporated into these Terms and Conditions of Use by this reference. Disclaimer and Liability You are responsible for the accuracy of the information that you enter or submit into the App. While Shell does its best to ensure that any information provided as part of this App is correct at the time of inclusion on the App, Shell cannot guarantee the accuracy of such information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Shell disclaims all warranties, express or implied, regarding the operation and use of the App and any products accessed via the App. You understand and agree that you use the App at your own risk and that you are solely responsible for your use and for any damage to the Device through which you access the App, loss of data or any other harm of any kind which may result from downloading, accessing or using the App. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Shell shall under no circumstances whatsoever be liable to you, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), breach of statutory duty or otherwise, arising under or in connection with any products accessed via the App, your use of this App, or for your reliance on any information or advice contained in the App for: loss of actual or anticipated profit, sales, savings, use, business, business opportunity or revenue; losses caused by business interruption; loss of goodwill or reputation; loss or corruption of data, information or software; or any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage suffered by you in connection with your use of the App or any materials posted on it, even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by you and/or Shell. Further, Shell shall not be liable to you or any third party in respect of the refusal to provide fuel, fraud, negligence, act, default or omission or wilful misconduct of: independent contractors / retailers engaged by Shell, or their employees, contractors or agents; and any retail site staff or their employees, contractors or agents (including any refusal to provide fuel). Nothing in these Terms and Conditions of Use shall limit or exclude Shell’s liability for death or personal injury caused by Shell’s negligence or for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation. External websites and applications The App may include links to external websites or applications. When you follow such links the external website or application may appear as a full screen (in which case you will need to use the Device button to return to this App) or in some cases it may appear within the frame of this App (in which case you will be able to return to this App by using the navigation buttons within the frame or this App). These links are provided in order to help you find relevant websites, applications, services and/or products which may be of interest to you quickly and easily. It is your responsibility to decide whether any services and/or products available through any of these websites or applications are suitable for your purposes. Shell is not responsible for the owners or operators of these applications or websites or for any goods or services they supply or for the content of their websites or applications and does not give or enter into any conditions, warranties or other terms or representations in relation to any of these or accept any liability in relation to any of these (including any liability arising out of any claim that the content of any external website or application to which this App includes a link infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party). Changes to/operation of the App Shell may change the format and content of all or any part of this App at any time, including but not limited to removal of features or functionalities in the App. Shell may suspend the operation of this App, or of certain of its features or functionalities, for support or maintenance work, in order to update the content or for any other reason. Updates to the App may be issued from time to time through the Appstore or Google Play. Depending on the update, you may not be able to use all or part of the App until you have downloaded the latest version of the App and accepted any new terms. Transfer of Rights Shell may transfer its rights and obligations under these Terms and Conditions of Use to any affiliate of Shell. Any such transfer will not affect your rights or Shell’s obligations under these Terms and Conditions of Use. Complaints Procedure If you have a question or complaint about this App, please email SITI-MLM-Support@shell.com. Severance Each of the Clauses or sub-clauses of these Terms and Conditions of Use operates separately. If any court or relevant authority decides that any of them are unlawful or unenforceable, the remaining Clauses or sub-clauses will remain in full force and effect. Termination Shell reserves the right in its sole discretion to terminate your account and/or access to this App or any functionalities thereof, delete your profile and any of your User Generated Content and/or restrict your use of all or any part of the App at any time, for any or no reason, without notice and without liability to you or anyone else. Shell also reserves the right to prevent access to the App or any of its functionalities or features. After any line of action subject to Clause 17.1 you are not allowed to create a new account to circumvent the termination, deletion or restriction. You understand and agree that some of your User Generated Content may continue to appear on or through the App or may persist in backup copies for a reasonable period of time even after your account and/or access to the App is terminated. These Terms and Conditions of Use remain in effect after your account and/or access to the App is terminated. Changes to these Terms and Conditions of Use Shell may change these Terms and Conditions of Use at any time without notice, effective upon posting the amended Terms and Conditions of Use to the App. In the event that the Terms and Conditions of Use are amended, you will be asked to accept those revised Terms and Conditions of Use when you next use the App. Any use of the App thereafter will be on the basis of those revised Terms and Conditions of Use. Jurisdiction These terms & conditions will be exclusively governed in accordance with applicable laws of India. Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of the App and/or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration by a sole arbitrator under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 as per the then prevailing Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. The seat / venue of arbitration shall be New Delhi. The sole arbitrator shall be appointed as per the then prevailing Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. Subject to the aforesaid arbitration provision, Courts at New Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all matters relating to the App and/or these terms and conditions The best choices are always more rewarding! With Shell V-Power, it’s always been about the best drive experience, and now it’s time we take it beyond just the drive! To take our relationship to the next level, we bring you Shell V-Power Rewards – our way of rewarding you for picking Shell V Power for your vehicle. Your love for achieving milestones is now going to pay you back. Simply download the Shell Asia App, fuel your car with Shell V-Power and get great rewards at every turn. Get going today! Download Shell Asia App Refuel with Shell V-Power petrol/Shell V-Power diesel Unlock rewards when you reach milestones Enjoy the rewards you’ve unlocked What's in it for you? A whole lot You will receive bonus reward points on Shell Asia app on your first refuelling with Shell V-Power After you hit a milestone, you get a one-time Surprise Reward and you will continue to get attractive discounts, bonus points and a special birthday treat Stay tuned for thrilling offers along the way too! Earn rewards at every milestone The journey to unlocking rewards starts as soon as you sign up for Shell Asia App and refuel with Shell V-Power. You enter the Bronze Level when you refuel over 50 litres of Shell V-power, the Silver Level when you refuel over 100 litres of Shell V-power and the Gold Level when you refuel 300 litres of Shell V-power in 2023, on Shell Asia app. The table below shows what you’ll win at every turn: Bronze Tier Silver Tier Gold Tier Shell V-power Upon re-fuelling 50 litres-99 Liters Upon re-fuelling 100 litres- 299 Liters Upon re-fuelling 300 litres and above Welcome Offer Surprise gift* Surprise gift* Surprise gift* Extra points 2X Points 3X Points 4X Points Thrilling Thursdays 3X Points 4X Points 5X Points Oil Change and vehicle care 5% off 10% off 20% off Deli2go 5% off 10% off 20% off Birthday offer Special Treat Special Treat Special Treat Exclusive events No No Yes! Get bonus points on crossing 200 litres and 500 litres Unleash the real performance of Shell V-Power and gear up for a rewarding journey. View Terms and Conditions Shell V Power Rewards Terms and ConditionsThe following Terms & Conditions govern the Shell GO+ programme for users registered through Shell Asia app (herein after called App or app), and issued by Shell India Markets Private Limited (Shell) to the members or users of Shell Go+ programme.In this document, GO+ will refer to the use of products and schemes available through Shell App, unless otherwise specified. 1. GENERAL The mentioned terms and conditions are applicable across the entire Shell GO+ Scheme. Any participation and use of the GO+ is considered as acceptance of these. Shell reserves the right to vary, add, or amend the Terms and Conditions including but not limited to usage of GO+, reward earning, reward redemption etc. Terms and Conditions, as amended, varied or supplemented from time to time, supersede any earlier terms and conditions issued by Shell. Shell can cancel, withdraw, alter or close registration for the rewards scheme at any point in time. Shell has the right to amend the list of participating sites without any prior notice. All members of GO+ must be residing in India at the time of availing the scheme. All members of GO+ must be aged 18 years or above. All members of GO+ must have a valid mobile number, which will act as their unique identifier. The GO+ programme is not transferable, cannot be copied and can only be used by the member who is registered for the program. The rewards & benefits of this GO+ programme is not transferable to other programs run by Shell in India or globally. Members can only use their account (with phone no registered or linked to the App) and enjoy the App benefits in India. Shell may decline to issue, withdraw or cancel GO+ accounts, cards, coupons, vouchers and points, in whatever form, and/or remove a member from GO+ at any time where there is reasonable belief of: any abuse or attempted abuse of the scheme; any breach or attempted breach of these terms and conditions; and/or any behaviour relating to the GO+ or the Shell Group that involves theft, misconduct, abusive or offensive behaviour, or supplying false or misleading information; Shell reserves the right not to reopen the account to the member in case any of the aforesaid conditions are met. In case you notice unauthorised transactions on your account, please reach out to our Customer Service. The terms and conditions do not confer any enforceable rights on a person who is not party to the terms and conditions. 2. REGISTRATION & CUSTOMER INFORMATION You can become a member of GO+ by downloading Shell App on your mobile through App Store or Play Store, and registering for Shell GO+ programme. You can start using your GO+ membership, once all mandatory registration details are completed in full and submitted. You can select your preferred mode of communication (i.e, via registered email id or registered mobile number or in-app push notification) while registering. Your mobile number acts as a unique identifier, and therefore, multiple memberships with single mobile number is not allowed. You shall ensure that a correct mobile phone number is provided while registering. Incase of incorrect mobile number is provided, Shell shall not be responsible for issue of points to the membership account thus created. Shell runs different schemes for certain set of Shell Go+ members from time to time. If you are eligible, you will receive unique Shell MemberPlus codes provided by Shell Retailers/ Dealers at Shell stations OR by Partners who have a tie up with Shell Mobility India. This code will enable you to receive special benefits under the Shell Go+ program. You must keep Shell informed of any changes to the information submitted. Shell cannot be held responsible for any loss of points or vouchers incurred, as a result of out-of-date information. In case you would like to change your registered mobile number, you must submit the change of Mobile number under Account section within the app, instead of opening a new membership account. If you register with a new number, a new membership account will be opened, and we will be unable to transfer any previously collected points to the new account. 3. EARNING POINTS GO+ is only applicable for purchases at participating sites as may be. Do check Shell App for information on presence of Shell Select, Deli2Go and delicafé at the participating sites. The schemes mentioned below are only applicable for GO+ customers holding an individual account. If you are a Fleet Solutions customer, please refer to the relevant section for details. You must present either your digital card or Physical card at the time of your purchase to earn points for the transaction undertaken. There will be no issuance of points for historical transactions. As a member, you can earn points from your personal purchases only. Points earned from the purchase of other customers, even if with the consent, may constitute as fraud. As an individual member, you will receive points based on purchase from participating sites as per the following criteria: Fuel (Petrol & Diesel) 5 points for every litre of Shell petrol or diesel purchased points for every litre of Shell V-Power fuel purchased Advance Lubricants Range (for 2-wheelers) 50 points for every litre of Advance AX3 or Advance AX5 lubricants purchased 100 points for every litre of Advance AX7 lubricants purchased 400 points for every litre of Advance Ultra lubricants purchased Helix Lubricants Range (for 4-wheelers) 50 points for every litre of Helix HX3 and HX5 lubricants purchased 150 points for every litre of Helix HX7 lubricants purchased 600 points for every litre of Helix HX8, Helix Ultra, Power & Protect lubricants purchased Convenience Retail including Shell SELECT, deli2go and delicafé For every purchase of INR100 and above, you earn 1 point on purchase of every INR 5. No points will be awarded for purchases below INR100 for this category. No points will be awarded on purchase of tobacco products. As an individual customer, you can earn points on a maximum of 3 transactions per day, or a maximum spend of INR 10,000 per day. Any purchases which translate to a fraction of points earned would be rounded off to the lower whole number. e.g. 41.8 litres of V-Power will yield 410 points. Similarly, a purchase of INR 204 at Shell Select will earn you 40 points. Shell reserves the right to change the rate of awarding points, and the type of qualifying purchases, by giving you reasonable notice in writing (through Shell App, your email address or SMS) and/or highlighting the changes at participating sites. Shell has the discretion to add additional points to any customers’ GO+ account. Participating sites may also have seasonal offers, which will reward you with extra points for specific purchases. Details of these offers can be found on Shell App and the respective sites from time to time. In case you have two active offers on same product, offer with earlier expiry will be applied first. As a Shell Go+ member you can earn 250 points for referral. You can share the referral code present in your App with other individual who is not member of Shell Go+. The points will be awarded once the referred individual successfully transacts at least once at any Shell station upon registration. Shell reserves the right to not issue points in combination with other offers such as promotions or discounts, unless explicitly stated otherwise. No points will be awarded for the items purchased against redemption of points. Points earned in each transaction will be credited in real time and can be checked via the Shell App. However, in case of system delays the point balance will be updated within 24 hours from the time of transaction. 4. REDEEMING YOUR POINTS Accumulated points in the one account cannot be transferred or combined with any other account Points earned as part of GO+ scheme can be redeemed at participating sites as may be defined by Shell from time to time. Points earned cannot be redeemed for cash. Points redemption can only be availed by the member. GO+ catalogue is available on Shell App. You will be required to select the item you would like to redeem, and the same can be availed during the next transaction at participating sites. You cannot redeem more than 5 unique items from gift catalogue in one transaction Points once redeemed as part of a transaction cannot be reversed. Items purchased against points will not be refunded, returned, or exchanged. In case, you redeem the points for a fuel or non-fuel voucher, the total value of the voucher should be consumed in a single purchase. No cash back can be availed in case spend is less than the value of the voucher. In case of unavailability of redeemed item at a participating site, you may check for the same item at another participating site or may wait for that item to become available. Do check with the participating site if the item selected is part of the available items. You will have an option in the App to switch ON or switch OFF offers/ redeemed gift items within My card section by using Toggle functionality before your transaction at site. Currently you can Toggle ON or Toggle OFF all the same type of gift items simultaneously, irrespective of the number of quantities available. An offer or gift item or voucher can be availed only once every 24 hours from the time of previous transaction at the same Shell station. 5. SHELL V-POWER REWARDS The Shell V-Power Rewards Program is an annual program part of Shell GO+ programme (running from 1st January to 31st December every year) and it refers to the tier of membership allocated to the Shell V-Power customers by SIMPL basis rules and regulations of the Shell V-Power Rewards Program that are laid out by SIMPL from time to time. That is valid at all participating retail stations. Eligibility to join Shell V-Power rewards program requires a minimum fill of Shell V-Power in specific quantity during each qualifying period as follows: Member: Minimum 1 transaction of Shell V-Power in the qualifying period (Qualifying period is 1st Jan to 31st Dec 2023) Bronze tier: 50-99 litres of Shell V-Power Silver tier: 100 to 299 litres of Shell V-Power Gold tier: 300 litres and above of Shell V-Power Example: Members with purchase of Shell V-Power 100 litres of Shell V-Power starting from 1st Jan onwards will be automatically upgraded from Bronze to Silver tier To progress to the next tier of membership, member must meet all qualifying factors for all each membership tier. For the next qualifying period, the entire program will be reset and customers need to again meet the minimum qualification to be part of a desired tier as mentioned in Point 1. Shell reserves the right to amend or add or remove any of the Tiers eligibility and rewards under each tier. Rewards/ bonus points/ discounts or any other reward subject to Shell’s discretion Upon reaching a Tier, for example bronze to silver, the bonus points on Shell V-Power purchases will be applicable as per new Tier only from next transaction. Upon reaching a Tier, for example bronze to silver, the discount offer on non-fuel purchases will be assigned as per new tier within a maximum of 7 days for a fixed validity period. A maximum of 2 transactions per day of Shell V-Power will be considered to earn bonus points and calculating the volume towards eligibility criteria. All the offers will have a validity period. Customer needs to check for the validity period on the offers section of the Shell Asia App. No two similar offers can be clubbed together (For example, if you have two offers of 10% off on vehicle care and 5% off on vehicle care, only one of the two offers will apply to the transaction). You can choose the offer you want to avail by using the Toggle on/off feature on the My Card section of the App. No two different offers can be availed on same product in one transaction (For example, if you have 10% off on deli2go and a free beverage offer for birthday, on the same product, only one of the two offers will be applied). You can choose the offer you want to avail by using the Toggle on/off feature on the My Card section of the App. Non-fuel purchase offers can be redeemed up to 6 times within the validity period under each Tier. Upon reaching Bronze Tier, customer will start earning 2X points (20 points per litre) only on Shell V-Power purchase from the next transaction of reaching Tier. Similarly, upon reaching Silver Tier, customer will start earning 3X points (30 points per litre) only on Shell V-Power purchase from the next transaction of reaching Tier and upon reaching Gold Tier, customer will start 4X points (40 points per litre) only on Shell V-Power purchase from the next transaction of reaching Tier. On every Thursday, customers are eligible to get bonus points as per following: Bronze Tier - 3X points / 30 points per litre of Shell V-Power Silver Tier - 4X points / 40 points per litre of Shell V-Power Gold Tier - 5X points / 50 points per litre of Shell V-Power The bonus points on every Thursday are only applicable on the first transaction of the day and only if Shell V-Power is part of that first transaction. Birthday Rewards will be on Shell’s discretion and may vary during the qualifying period. Birthday Reward offer will be assigned one day before the birth date of a member and will be valid for 7 days. Rewards upon reaching the next Tier may be on Shell’s discretion and may vary during the qualifying period. Validity for availing the Reward is 30 days. Shell V-Power Rewards Program membership is for individuals only - it is not a corporate membership. Misuse of Shell V-Power Rewards Program benefits may result in termination of Shell V-Power Rewards Program membership or withdrawal of benefits without prior intimation and at the sole discretion of SIMPL. Shell V-Power Rewards is not transferable. Shell V-Power Rewards Program membership can be revoked or refused if a Shell V-Power Rewards Program member is involved in any act of fraud, cheating with or without cause and without any notice. The Shell V-Power Rewards membership is valid till 31st Dec of every year from the date of enrolment/upgrade/renewal as reflected in the SIMPL system. Shell V-Power Rewards Reward Points should be redeemed within the validity period of Shell V-Power Rewards membership after which the Reward Points will automatically lapse. Certain reward points that may be earned or credited to members may have a different validity from the tier reward points and will lapse as per their validity and not membership validity of the member. Once Reward Points are redeemed or lapsed, they cannot be reinstated under any circumstances. Shell GO+ terms and conditions shall also apply Milestone offer Terms and Conditions Milestone Offer 1: Unlock your Surprise Reward at Bronze tier Milestone Offer 2: Unlock your Surprise Reward at Silver tier Milestone Offer 3: Unlock your Surprise Reward at Gold tier Validity: 30 days Validity: 30 days Validity: 30 days Fuel for 50 litres of Shell V-Power in 2023 to unlock this offer Fuel for 100 litres of Shell V-Power in 2023 to unlock this offer Fuel for 300 litres of Shell V-Power in 2023 to unlock this offer 1. Offer can only be redeemed once per customer 1. Offer can only be redeemed once per customer 1. Offer can only be redeemed once per customer 2. Offer can be redeemed only for 1 unit from deli2go 2. Offer can be redeemed only for 2 units from deli2go 2. Offer can be redeemed only for 4 units from deli2go 3. The offer is valid only at participating Shell Stations, subject to availability of the product 3. The offer is valid only at participating Shell Stations, subject to availability of the product 3. The offer is valid only at participating Shell Stations, subject to availability of the product 4. Image used in the offer is meant for representation purpose solely 4. Image used in the offer is meant for representation purpose solely 4. Image used in the offer is meant for representation purpose solely 5. The offer cannot be combined or exchanged with any other offer provided by Shell. 5. The offer cannot be combined or exchanged with any other offer provided by Shell. 5. The offer cannot be combined or exchanged with any other offer provided by Shell. 6. The offer is not transferable and cannot be exchanged/ redeemed for cash. No cash claim shall be entertained in lieu of the offer 6. The offer is not transferable and cannot be exchanged/ redeemed for cash. No cash claim shall be entertained in lieu of the offer 6. The offer is not transferable and cannot be exchanged/ redeemed for cash. No cash claim shall be entertained in lieu of the offer 7. The offer is valid only for successful/approved transactions. 7. The offer is valid only for successful/approved transactions. 7. The offer is valid only for successful/approved transactions. 8. No two similar offers can be availed simultaneously 8. No two similar offers can be availed simultaneously 8. No two similar offers can be availed simultaneously 9. Shell GO+ terms and conditions also apply 9. Shell GO+ terms and conditions also apply 9. Shell GO+ terms and conditions also apply 10. By participating in the Offer, the Customers shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions. 10. By participating in the Offer, the Customers shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions. 10. By participating in the Offer, the Customers shall be deemed to have accepted these Terms and Conditions. 6. FLEET SOLUTIONS CUSTOMERS Customers who use Fleet Solutions card as a method of payment will not be eligible for benefits of the GO+ programme for that transaction. Please reach out to your Fleet Solutions Account Manager for more information. 7. ACCOUNT CLOSURE & POINTS EXPIRY You can choose to leave the programme/membership by contacting our customer service team which can be reached on +91 44 3099 1103 or +91 44 4344 2650. All the unused vouchers/ points shall be forfeited at the time of account closure. If an account is inactive for one year, Shell reserves the right to reset the points balance to zero for the account with immediate effect, and/or close the membership account with immediate effect The validity of points earned is 1 year, at the end of which same shall be expired. Shell reserves the right in its sole discretion to suspend and/or terminate your account and/or access to Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card or any functionalities thereof, delete your profile and any of your User Generated Content and/or restrict your use of all or any part of the Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card at any time, for any or no reason, without notice and without any liability to Shell or anyone else for any breach of these terms and conditions and/or applicable laws or even otherwise. After any line of action, as aforesaid, you are not allowed to create a new account to circumvent the termination, deletion or restriction. You understand and agree that some of your User Generated Content may continue to appear on or be part of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card or may persist in backup copies for a reasonable period of time even after your account and/or access to Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card is terminated. These Terms and Conditions shall remain in effect after your account and/or access to Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card is terminated. 8. DATA PROTECTION As a member of GO+, any information shared by you is governed by the GO+ Privacy Policy. The Privacy Policy (which can be accessed in the Account section of the app) describes how Shell manages your data in accordance with the law. will receive periodic updates on your account, promotional offer and information on the programme. The communication will be through Shell App, your registered mobile number or your email address. You have the option to choose your preferred mode of communication. 9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY You are responsible for the accuracy of the information that you enter or submit to become a part of Shell GO+ programme. While Shell does its best to ensure that any information provided to become a part of Shell GO+ programme is correct at the time of inclusion, Shell cannot guarantee the accuracy of such information. Shell disclaims all warranties, express or implied, regarding your participation in the Shell GO+ programme and your any associated operation and use of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. You understand and agree that your participation in the Shell GO+ programme and your any associated operation and use of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card is at done at your own risk, cost and consequence and that you are solely responsible for any damage suffered by you or any 3rd party as a result of your participation in the Shell GO+ programme and your any associated operation and use of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. Shell shall under no circumstances whatsoever be liable to you or any 3rd party, whether in equity, contract, tort (including negligence), breach of statutory duty or otherwise, arising under or in connection with your participation in the Shell GO+ programme and your any associated operation and use of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card for: loss of actual or anticipated profit, sales, savings, use, business, business opportunity or revenue; losses caused by business interruption; loss of goodwill or reputation; loss or corruption of data, information or software; or any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage suffered even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by you and/or Shell. 10. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY All intellectual property contained in or on Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card is owned by Shell or its licensors. All content in the Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card including, but not limited to, text, software, scripts, code, designs, graphics, photos, sounds, music, videos, interactive features and all other content (“Content”) is a collective work under applicable copyright laws and is the proprietary property of Shell. Shell reserves all of its rights in respect of the IPR contained in the Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card and in respect of the Content. In particular, Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card contains trademarks including, but not limited to, the mark "Shell" and the Shell emblem. All trademarks included as part of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ cards are owned by Shell Brands International (SBI) or its licensors. Shell reserves all of its rights in respect of the trademarks included as part of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. Nothing in these Terms and Conditions or otherwise shall be interpreted as granting to you any license of IPR owned by Shell, SBI or its licensors. 11. USER GENERATED CONTENT “User Generated Content” is any content such as communications, information, messages, photographs, music, videos, designs, graphics, website links, data, profiles that you and/or other members post or otherwise make available on or through Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card, except to the extent that such content is owned by or licensed to Shell. You are solely responsible for your User Generated Content, your interactions with other members and in general, your overall activity in the Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card and Shell shall not have any liability whatsoever for any user generated content. You agree not to post any content or make any communications which may expose Shell or any of other member of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card to harm or liability of any type. You agree not to post or submit User Generated Content, or a link to a website, which, is illegal, fraudulent, deceptive, misleading, libellous, infringing, harassing, hateful, threatening, abusive, pornographic, offensive in a sexual, racial, cultural or ethnic consent or is otherwise objectionable. You confirm that you own or control all rights in any User Generated Content that you post or submit on Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. You agree not to submit User Generated Content unless you are the owner or have permission of the owner to post such User Generated Content. You confirm not to post photos or videos of another person or showing another person without that person´s permission. Your User Generated Content is not confidential or proprietary. You grant, and warrant that you have the right to grant to Shell a non-exclusive, non-revocable, worldwide, transferable, royalty-free, perpetual right to use your User Generated Content in any manner of media now or later developed for any purpose, commercial, advertising or otherwise, including the right to translate, display, reproduce, modify, create derivative work, sub-license, distribute, assign and commercialize without any payment due to you. Should any part of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card offer you the opportunity to join in or read from a forum, please be aware that any communications posted on the forum represent the views of the individual who posted such communication and are not to be taken as the views of Shell. Do not use or become member of Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card or any functionality thereof for any commercial purpose. Do not post any User Generated Content that includes “junk mail”, “chain letters”, “pyramid schemes” or other forms of solicitation. Do not use automated scripts to collect information from Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. Do not provide any false personal information about yourself. You confirm not to create more than one Shell account, create a Shell account on behalf of another individual, group or entity, or transfer your profile or account. Do not use or try to use another person's account, username or password. Shell reserves the right to monitor any information transmitted or received through any forum provided, and, at its sole discretion and without prior notice, to review, remove or otherwise block any material posted. Shell has no obligation to prescreen, monitor, edit or remove User Generated Content and assumes no responsibility for User Generated Content, even where it chooses to carry out prescreening, monitoring, editing or removal of User Generated Content. 12. INDEMNITY You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Shell, SBI, its affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, licensors and suppliers from and against all claims, losses, liabilities, expenses, damages and costs, including, without limitation, legal costs arising from or relating in any way to your User Generated Content, your participation in Shell GO+ programme, any associated downloading / usage of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card or any violation of these Terms and Conditions of Use, any law or the rights of any third party. 13. EXTERNAL WEBSITES OR APPLICATIONS Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card may include links to external websites or applications. When you follow such links the external website or application may appear as a full screen or in some cases it may appear within the frame of Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card. These links are provided in order to help you find relevant websites, applications, services and/or products which may be of interest to you quickly and easily. It is your responsibility to decide whether any services and/or products available through any of these websites or applications are suitable for your purposes. Shell is never to be construed as recommending to you to avail any services and/or products available through any of these websites or applications. Shell is not responsible for the owners or operators of these applications or websites or for any goods or services they supply or for the content of their websites or applications and does not give or enter into any conditions, warranties or other terms or representations in relation to any of these or accept any liability in relation to any of these (including any liability arising out of any claim that the content of any external website or application to which Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card includes a link infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party). 14. GOVERNING LAW & DISPUTE RESOLUTION Your participation in Shell GO+ programme and any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card and these terms and conditions shall be governed by and construed and interpreted only in accordance with the laws of India. In the case of any dispute or claim arising out of or in connection with or relating to your participation in Shell GO+ programme and/or any associated Shell App, Shell GO+ website and Physical GO+ card and/or these terms and conditions, such dispute or claim shall be finally and exclusively settled by arbitration vide a sole arbitrator under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any other statutory modifications or re-enactments made thereof as per Rules of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. The sole arbitrator shall be appointed as per Rules of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. All Arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in the English language and the seat/venue/place of arbitration shall be New Delhi only. Each Party shall co-operate in good faith to expedite (to the maximum extent practicable) the conduct of any arbitral proceedings commenced. Subject to aforesaid, the courts at New Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction. SHELL APPLICATION: GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF USE Please read these terms and conditions of use carefully before using this mobile application (the “App”). By accessing or using this App or any functionality thereof on any computer, mobile phone, tablet, console or other device (together “Devices” and each a “Device”), you confirm that you have read, understood and agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions of use and any other applicable law. If you do not agree to these terms and conditions of use, please do not access or use the App or any functionality thereof. 1. Owner and operator information 1.1 The App is owned and operated by Shell Information Technology International B.V., a company whose registered office is at Carel van Bylandtlaan 30, Den Haag, 2596 HR, The Netherlands (“SITI”). 1.2 The App is provided in India by Shell India Markets Private Limited (“Shell”). 1.3 For the purpose of these terms and conditions of use, any reference to “Shell”, “we” or “us” may be a reference to the Shell group of companies in general, or to any one company within the Shell group of companies if no useful purpose is served by identifying that specific company. 2. User Restrictions and Access 2.1 This App is intended for motorists only and may not be used by any person who is not legally entitled to drive a motor vehicle. It should not under any circumstances be accessed or used whilst driving. 2.2 In order to use certain current or future functionalities of this App, you may be required to register or sign in as a Shell loyalty customer or to create an account. 2.3 Be aware that the use of some of the functionalities of this App require access to the Internet. 3. Acceptable use 3.1 You may: (a) access any part of the App (save that only Shell loyalty customers will be able to access the loyalty function(s) within the App); and (b) print off one copy of any or all of the pages for your own personal non-commercial use. 3.2 You may not: (a ) copy (whether by printing off onto paper, storing on disk, downloading or in any other way), distribute (including distributing copies), broadcast, alter or tamper with in any way or otherwise use any material contained in the App (including User Generated Content, unless it is your own User Generated Content that you legally post to the App or associated forum) except as set out under Clause 34.1 above. These restrictions apply in relation to all or part of the Content; (b) remove any copyright, trade mark or other intellectual property notices contained in the original material from any material copied or printed off from the App; (c) link to the App; (d) use the App (or any part of it) in any unlawful manner, for any unlawful purpose, or in any manner inconsistent with these Terms and Conditions of Use, or act fraudulently or maliciously, for example, by hacking into or inserting malicious codes, including viruses, or harmful data, into the App or any operating system; (e) use the App in a way which could damage, disable, overburden, impair or compromise Shell’s systems or security or interfere with other users; (f) collect or harvest any information or data from the App or our systems or attempt to decipher any transmissions to or from the servers running any part of the App; or (g) change or delete any ownership notices from materials downloaded or printed from the App; (h) circumvent or modify any App security technology or software, without Shell’s express written consent. 3.3 If you wish to provide a hypertext or other link to this App, please email SITI-MLM-Support@shell.com with details of: (a) the URL(s) of the web page(s) from which you are proposing to link to this App; and (b) the URL(s) of the web page(s) on this App to which you are proposing to link. 3.4 Shell may, at its sole discretion, agree to or reject any request made in accordance with Clause 3.3 above. Shell has no obligation to agree to any such request or to provide any reason for accepting to rejecting any such request. 4. Loyalty Program Terms and Conditions If the Loyalty Program is made available in India and you register for the Loyalty Program through the App or log into the loyalty functionality of the App then your use of the loyalty card and participation in the Loyalty Program will also be subject to the Loyalty Program Terms and Conditions. 5. Mobile Services The use of the App is for free but be aware that your carrier´s normal rates apply. The App contains services and features that are available to certain mobile Devices. By using the App, you agree that we may communicate with you by electronic means to your mobile Device and that certain information about your use of these services may be shared with us. If you change or deactivate your mobile phone number, you have to immediately update your account information to ensure that we don't send your messages to the person who acquired your old number. 6. User Generated Content 6.1 “User Generated Content” is any content such as communications, information, messages, photographs, music, videos, designs, graphics, website links, data, profiles that you and/or other App users post or otherwise make available on or through the App, except to the extent that such content is owned by or licensed to Shell. 6.2 You are solely responsible for your User Generated Content, your interactions with other users of the App and your activity on the App. You agree not to post any content or make any communications which may expose Shell or any of the App’s users to harm or liability of any type. You agree not to post or submit User Generated Content, or a link to a website, which, is illegal, fraudulent, deceptive, misleading, libelous, infringing, harassing, hateful, threatening, abusive, pornographic, offensive in a sexual, racial, cultural or ethnic consent or is otherwise objectionable. 6.3 You confirm that you own or control all rights in any User Generated Content that you post or submit on or through the App. You agree not to submit User Generated Content unless you are the owner or have permission of the owner to post such User Generated Content. You confirm not to post photos or videos of another person or showing another person without that person´s permission. 6.4 Your User Generated Content is not confidential or proprietary. You grant, and warrant that you have the right to grant to Shell a non-exclusive, non-revocable, worldwide, transferable, royalty-free, perpetual right to use your User Generated Content in any manner of media now or later developed for any purpose, commercial, advertising or otherwise, including the right to translate, display, reproduce, modify, create derivative work, sub-license, distribute, assign and commercialize without any payment due to you. 6.6 Should any part of this App offer you the opportunity to join in or read from a forum, please be aware that any communications posted on the forum represent the views of the individual who posted such communication and are not to be taken as the views of Shell. 6.7 Do not use this App or any functionality thereof for any commercial purpose. 6.8 Do not post any User Generated Content that includes “junk mail”, “chain letters”, “pyramid schemes” or other forms of solicitation. Do not use automated scripts to collect information from this App. 6.9 Do not provide any false personal information about yourself. You confirm not to create more than one Shell account, create a Shell account on behalf of another individual, group or entity, or transfer your profile or account. Do not use or try to use another person's account, username or password. 6.10 Shell reserves the right to monitor any information transmitted or received through any forum provided, and, at its sole discretion and without prior notice, to review, remove or otherwise block any material posted. 6.11 Shell has no obligation to prescreen, monitor, edit or remove User Generated Content and assumes no responsibility for User Generated Content, even where it chooses to carry out prescreening, monitoring, editing or removal of User Generated Content. 7. Indemnification 7.1 You agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless Shell, its affiliates, including SITI and other affiliates of Royal Dutch Shell plc, officers, directors, employees, agents, licensors and suppliers from and against all claims, losses, liabilities, expenses, damages and costs, including, without limitation, legal costs arising from or relating in any way to your User Generated Content, your use of Content, your use of the App or any violation of these Terms and Conditions of Use, any law or the rights of any third party. 8. Security 8.1 If you choose or are provided with a username, password or any other piece of information as part of Shell’s security procedures, you must treat such information as confidential and you must not disclose it to any third party nor allow any unauthorized person access to the App under your username and/or password. You are responsible for any actions that take place while using your App account or while using the App via your Device and Shell is not responsible for any loss that results from the unauthorized use of your username and/or password, with or without your knowledge. 9. Intellectual Property Rights (“IPR”) 9.1 All intellectual property contained in or on the App (except for User Generated Content) is owned by Shell or its licensors, including SITI. All content in the App (except for User Generated Content) including, but not limited to, text, software, scripts, code, designs, graphics, photos, sounds, music, videos, interactive features and all other content (“Content”) is a collective work under applicable copyright laws and is the proprietary property of Shell. Shell reserves all its rights in respect of the IPR contained in the App and in respect of the Content. 9.2 This App contains trademarks including, but not limited to, the mark "Shell" and the Shell emblem. All trademarks included on this App are owned by Shell Brands International AG, an affiliate of SITI and Shell, or its licensors. Shell reserves all of its rights in respect of the trademarks included on this App. 9.3 Nothing in these Terms and Conditions of Use shall be interpreted as granting to you any license of IPR owned by Shell, SITI, Shell Brands International AG or its licensors. 10. Data Protection and Privacy Policy 10.1 Personal details and other information relating to you provided to any Shell company through this App will only be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Please read this carefully before continuing. By downloading the App you are consenting to use of this information in accordance with our Privacy Policy, which is incorporated into these Terms and Conditions of Use by this reference. 11. Disclaimer and Liability 11.1 You are responsible for the accuracy of the information that you enter or submit into the App. While Shell does its best to ensure that any information provided as part of this App is correct at the time of inclusion on the App, Shell cannot guarantee the accuracy of such information. 11.2 To the fullest extent permitted by law, Shell disclaims all warranties, express or implied, regarding the operation and use of the App and any products accessed via the App. You understand and agree that you use the App at your own risk and that you are solely responsible for your use and for any damage to the Device through which you access the App, loss of data or any other harm of any kind which may result from downloading, accessing or using the App. 11.3 To the fullest extent permitted by law, Shell shall under no circumstances whatsoever be liable to you, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), breach of statutory duty or otherwise, arising under or in connection with any products accessed via the App, your use of this App, or for your reliance on any information or advice contained in the App for: (a) loss of actual or anticipated profit, sales, savings, use, business, business opportunity or revenue; (b) losses caused by business interruption; (c) loss of goodwill or reputation; (d) loss or corruption of data, information or software; or (e) any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage suffered by you in connection with your use of the App or any materials posted on it, even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by you and/or Shell. 11.4 Further, Shell shall not be liable to you or any third party in respect of the refusal to provide fuel, fraud, negligence, act, default or omission or wilful misconduct of: (a) independent contractors / retailers engaged by Shell, or their employees, contractors or agents; and (b) any retail site staff or their employees, contractors or agents (including any refusal to provide fuel). 11.5 Nothing in these Terms and Conditions of Use shall limit or exclude Shell’s liability for death or personal injury caused by Shell’s negligence or for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation. 12. External websites and applications 12.1 The App may include links to external websites or applications. When you follow such links the external website or application may appear as a full screen (in which case you will need to use the Device button to return to this App) or in some cases it may appear within the frame of this App (in which case you will be able to return to this App by using the navigation buttons within the frame or this App). These links are provided in order to help you find relevant websites, applications, services and/or products which may be of interest to you quickly and easily. It is your responsibility to decide whether any services and/or products available through any of these websites or applications are suitable for your purposes. Shell is not responsible for the owners or operators of these applications or websites or for any goods or services they supply or for the content of their websites or applications and does not give or enter into any conditions, warranties or other terms or representations in relation to any of these or accept any liability in relation to any of these (including any liability arising out of any claim that the content of any external website or application to which this App includes a link infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party). 13. Changes to/operation of the App 13.1 Shell may change the format and content of all or any part of this App at any time, including but not limited to removal of features or functionalities in the App. 13.2 Shell may suspend the operation of this App, or of certain of its features or functionalities, for support or maintenance work, in order to update the content or for any other reason. 13.3 Updates to the App may be issued from time to time through the Appstore or Google Play. Depending on the update, you may not be able to use all or part of the App until you have downloaded the latest version of the App and accepted any new terms. 14. Transfer of Rights 14.1 Shell may transfer its rights and obligations under these Terms and Conditions of Use to any affiliate of Shell. Any such transfer will not affect your rights or Shell’s obligations under these Terms and Conditions of Use. 15. Complaints Procedure 15.1 If you have a question or complaint about this App, please email SITI-MLM-Support@shell.com. 16. Severance 16.1 Each of the Clauses or sub-clauses of these Terms and Conditions of Use operates separately. If any court or relevant authority decides that any of them are unlawful or unenforceable, the remaining Clauses or sub-clauses will remain in full force and effect. 17. Termination 17.1 Shell reserves the right in its sole discretion to terminate your account and/or access to this App or any functionalities thereof, delete your profile and any of your User Generated Content and/or restrict your use of all or any part of the App at any time, for any or no reason, without notice and without liability to you or anyone else. Shell also reserves the right to prevent access to the App or any of its functionalities or features. 17.2 After any line of action subject to Clause 17.1 you are not allowed to create a new account to circumvent the termination, deletion or restriction. 17.3 You understand and agree that some of your User Generated Content may continue to appear on or through the App or may persist in backup copies for a reasonable period of time even after your account and/or access to the App is terminated. 17.4 These Terms and Conditions of Use remain in effect after your account and/or access to the App is terminated. 18. Changes to these Terms and Conditions of Use Shell may change these Terms and Conditions of Use at any time without notice, effective upon posting the amended Terms and Conditions of Use to the App. In the event that the Terms and Conditions of Use are amended, you will be asked to accept those revised Terms and Conditions of Use when you next use the App. Any use of the App thereafter will be on the basis of those revised Terms and Conditions of Use. 19. Jurisdiction These terms & conditions will be exclusively governed in accordance with applicable laws of India. Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of the App and/or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration by a sole arbitrator under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 as per the then prevailing Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. The seat / venue of arbitration shall be New Delhi. The sole arbitrator shall be appointed as per the then prevailing Rules of Arbitration of Delhi International Arbitration Centre. Subject to the aforesaid arbitration provision, Courts at New Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction in all matters relating to the App and/or these terms and conditions Shell EnergyUnder the Shell Energy brand, we provide innovative, reliable and cleaner energy solutions through a portfolio of gas, power, environmental products and energy efficiency offers to businesses and residential customers. The Shell Energy brand encompasses our established Energy Marketing & Trading business and our recent home energy launch in Great Britain under Shell Energy Retail. Shell Energy Marketing & Trading Shell Energy Marketing & Trading profitably manages Shell’s global equity LNG, gas, power and environmental products portfolio to meet current and future energy needs of Shell’s large-scale customers: energy producers, asset owners, traders, wholesalers, and large industrial customers. Shell Energy Retail Shell Energy Retail is our home energy offer for households in Britain. We believe that home energy matters, which is why we supply 100% renewable electricity as standard to all customers, as well as gas, smart home technology and customer loyalty rewards. Shell Energy India The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. Shell Energy Marketing & Trading We provide more and cleaner energy solutions across a global portfolio of gas, power and environmental products Shell Energy Retail Our home energy offer for households in Great Britain Your Trusted Energy Partner The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. Attitudes are changing and customer needs are quickly evolving. As a leading global provider of energy products and services, Shell Energy offers a better way to power your business. Leveraging our strong trading capability and deep global market understanding, we offer reliable, integrated and innovative energy solutions. About Us Shell Energy India is a Shell venture, serving Indian customers through a fully-owned and integrated value chain – competitive supply from global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. Products & Services Shell Energy India offers flexible deal structures, risk management capabilities and reliable Gas and LNG supplies. Why chose SEI? Reap the rewards of an integrated energy company and experience energy that’s better for business. We offer the cost-effective energy solutions you need to improve efficiency, meet clean energy targets, and respond to changing demands. LNG Terminal Shell Energy India (SEI) owns and operates a 5 mtpa LNG receiving, storage and regasification terminal at Hazira, Gujarat. Select your local Shell Energy website History: 1997: Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) invites global notice for Expression of Intention of Interest for development of Greenfield site port facilities in Gujarat, including Hazira. 2002: Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. signs the Concession Agreement with GMB with on April 2, 2002. Construction of marine infrastructure begins. The investment by the Shell Group in Hazira constitutes the single largest FDI for India in the Energy sector. 2004: Hazira Group of Companies announces the entry of Total GazElectricité Holdings France in the Hazira project. 2005: Commissioning of Hazira LNG terminal, India’s first LNG terminal by a global energy company on April 16, 2005. Hazira launches the concept of a merchant terminal in India – helps customer to select the quantity, price and the time of making a sale. 2006: Hazira LNG terminal begins commercial sale of Regasified LNG (RLNG) for customers in North and West India on basis of Spot LNG. 2009: Hazira LNG terminal is connected to the RGTIL grid, thus making it interconnected with all the major pipeline grids of India. On a sub-concession basis, Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. is awarded a Letter of Intent in favour of Mundra Port and Special Economic Zone Limited (MPSEZ) for the development of Bulk/Container Terminal at the Hazira (Surat) Port. The Bulk/Container Terminal is being developed in phases, with 3 berths in the initial phase. MPSEZ is forming a 100% subsidiary for the purpose. 2019: On Jan 8, 2019, Shell completes a deal with Total to acquire its 26% equity in the Hazira LNG and Port venture in India and becomes 100% owner of the Hazira LNG terminal. Gas marketing and trading businesses consolidated under the “Shell Energy India” brand and renames the Hazira LNG Pvt. Ltd. to “Shell Energy India Pvt. Ltd.” w.e.f. March 18, 2019. Products & Services Shell Energy India offers flexible deal structures, risk management capabilities and reliable Gas and LNG supplies. Why chose SEI? Reap the rewards of an integrated energy company and experience energy that’s better for business. We offer the cost-effective energy solutions you need to improve efficiency, meet clean energy targets, and respond to changing demands. LNG Terminal Shell Energy India (SEI) owns and operates a 5 mtpa LNG receiving, storage and regasification terminal at Hazira, Gujarat. Solutions Tailored to your Industry: From fertilizer to steel, customers can rely on Shell Energy India’s unparalleled market access, regional regulatory expertise and financial strength to consistently meet energy requirements. Industry Type FERTILISER INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL POWER CITY GAS DISTRIBUTION TRANSPORTATION PETROCHEMICALS REFINERY STEEL About Us Shell Energy India is a Shell venture, serving Indian customers through a fully-owned and integrated value chain – competitive supply from global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. Why chose SEI? Reap the rewards of an integrated energy company and experience energy that’s better for business. We offer the cost-effective energy solutions you need to improve efficiency, meet clean energy targets, and respond to changing demands. LNG Terminal Shell Energy India (SEI) owns and operates a 5 mtpa LNG receiving, storage and regasification terminal at Hazira, Gujarat. Supplying LNG via Trucks to CustomersEnhancing access to cleaner energy. There is an increasing need for a cleaner and reliable energy source to meet India’s growing energy demand. As the cleanest burning hydrocarbon, natural gas has a key role to play in meeting the country’s demand for more and cleaner energy. The Government of India has introduced various initiatives to support the development of infrastructure and competitive markets to deliver Natural gas, a cleaner, reliable and affordable fuel, for powering robust economic growth and aspires to increase the share of natural gas in the energy mix up to 15%. Small-scale LNG has an important role to play in realising this aspiration by enhancing the energy access to, particularly for energy consumers not connected to the gas pipeline network. LNG Supply by Trucks The LNG truck loading facility at our Hazira Terminal was recently inaugurated by Hon’ble Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Steel, Government of India. Through this facility, we will now be able to supply natural gas by trucks to customers across the country including the off-grid consumers enabling them to enhance productivity with lower emissions. Click here to read the Press Release The Industrial consumers stand to benefit the most through diversification and optimisation of supply sources and mix. The supply of LNG by trucks also support the development of the recently licensed CGDs, especially the ones which are yet to be connected to gas transportation networks. LNG for Transportation Switching heavy-duty vehicles to LNG diversifies the fuel mix and can help reduce harmful air pollution. LNG has the potential to offer fuel cost savings when compared to conventional diesel. For India’s growing air quality concerns, LNG as a transportation fuel, particularly for heavy-duty transport and inter-state bus transport, can help lower emissions and has been identified as one of the new generation fuels by the Government of India. Our new offering of supplying LNG by trucks will support the development of LNG as a transportation fuel in India, as the segment develops. Products & Services Shell Energy India offers flexible deal structures, risk management capabilities and reliable Gas and LNG supplies. Why chose SEI? Reap the rewards of an integrated energy company and experience energy that’s better for business. We offer the cost-effective energy solutions you need to improve efficiency, meet clean energy targets, and respond to changing demands. LNG Terminal Shell Energy India (SEI) owns and operates a 5 mtpa LNG receiving, storage and regasification terminal at Hazira, Gujarat. Reliable Supply Our access to a global portfolio of supply, a fully owned regasification facility and connectivity to all pipeline networks, enables us to provide reliable and well-managed supply to help meet your business needs. LNG by Truck We are excited to deliver LNG to your doorstep as we commence our trucked LNG business in India providing LNG to customers not connected to the grid. Flexible Products We offer flexible deal structures and effective risk management strategies to mitigate market fluctuations, enabling you to make better business decisions every day. LNG for Transport Shell Energy promotes development of market for LNG-fuelled vehicles in India by leveraging its global experience and striking suitable partnerships with stakeholders across the value chain. Local Knowledge, Global Expertise Combining our local knowledge with our global expertise to navigate the complex and rapidly evolving global market trends, we can offer innovative and cost competitive energy solutions to help you build your business. The Power to do business better From fertilizer to steel, customers across industry can rely on Shell Energy India’s unparalleled market access, regional expertise and asset strength to consistently meet energy requirement. Sustainable Solutions Reducing your business’ impact on the planet is now more important than ever before. Natural gas helps lower emissions and improve air quality when it replaces coal. We offer a range of supply options tailored to your energy needs. Supply you can count on Our infrastructure ensures uninterrupted gas supplies to the customer Strategic location – proximity to key LNG suppliers Investment: US$ 700mn+ Largest FDI greenfield project in the energy sector First LNG cargo received in April 2005 Capacity 5 MTPA LNG ship size range – 75,000 to 215,000 m3 Connected to all major pipeline grids of GAIL, GSPL and PIL LNG supplies from 17 countries Truck loading unit – loading capacity of 13 LNG trucks/day. Excellent SAFETY Record Wide operating window, from lightest CBM LNG to heaviest AD LNG 600+ cargoes unloaded since 2005 About Us Shell Energy India is a Shell venture, serving Indian customers through a fully-owned and integrated value chain – competitive supply from global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. Products & Services Shell Energy India offers flexible deal structures, risk management capabilities and reliable Gas and LNG supplies. LNG Terminal Shell Energy India (SEI) owns and operates a 5 mtpa LNG receiving, storage and regasification terminal at Hazira, Gujarat. LNG Terminal Designed to meet the growing energy demand. LNG Terminal – at a glance Investment: US$ 700mn+ Largest Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Greenfield project in the energy sector First LNG cargo received in April 2005 Present capacity 5 MTPA Infrastructure laid out for10 MTPA LNG ship sizes – 75,000 to 215,000 m3 Connected to 3 gas pipeline grids True merchant model – LNG supplies from 17 countries About Us Shell Energy India is a Shell venture, serving Indian customers through a fully-owned and integrated value chain – competitive supply from global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. Products & Services Shell Energy India offers flexible deal structures, risk management capabilities and reliable Gas and LNG supplies. Why chose SEI? Reap the rewards of an integrated energy company and experience energy that’s better for business. We offer the cost-effective energy solutions you need to improve efficiency, meet clean energy targets, and respond to changing demands. LNG Terminal – Features and Terminal OperationsDesigned to meet the growing energy demand. Technical Features Spread over an area of 46.7 hectares, the terminal has a jetty where LNG cargo is unloaded through to the cryogenic tanks. LNG is stored in the tanks at -160 C and pumped out of the tank for sending out to customers after regasification. The Main components of the terminal are LNG jetty with cryogenic unloading arms, cryogenic tanks to store LNG at -160C, LNG pumps to boost pressure to 80-100 barg, LNG vaporisers and send-out pipeline. The send-out pipeline carries the gas to the delivery point which is located 12.5 kms from the terminal. LNG Jetty The LNG jetty has 3 unloading arms, 2 for liquid and 1 for vapour. Unloading of LNG can be done at a maximum rate of 11000 M3/Hour. The jetty has state of art Emergency Shutdown System and safety equipment to avoid & control spills and leaks of LNG. The LNG unloaded is carried in cold condition by an unloading line to the LNG tanks. LNG storage tanks The terminal has two LNG tanks with a capacity of 160000 M3 each. These tanks have pre-stressed concrete outer and 9% Nickel steel inner tank to hold the LNG at -160 °C. LNG is stored in the tanks at atmospheric pressure. Cold insulation is provided between the outer and inner tanks to minimise heat ingress to the tank. This would ensure that LNG can be stored in the tanks at low temperature with minimum vaporisation of LNG. The tanks are provided with protection against high pressure to avoid any damage and with robust controls to keep the pressure within limits. LNG cryogenic pumps are installed inside the tanks, which pump out LNG from the tanks at intermediate pressure. The LNG pressure is finally boosted to 110 barg with the help of multi-stage cryogenic pumps before being sent to the regasification section. LNG Vaporisers LNG is re-gasified in Open Rack Vaporisers, using sea water as the heating medium. These vaporisers are designed to handle LNG at -160 °C and have been provided with instrumented protections to avoid any damage. The terminal also has a Submerged Combustion Vaporiser which uses fuel gas as the source of heat. In these vaporisers, heat generated by burning fuel gas is used to warm the water which in turn vaporizes LNG. Regasification Process Spread over an area of 46.7 hectares, the terminal has a jetty where LNG cargo is unloaded through cryogenic unloading arms and sent to the LNG tanks for storage via unloading line. Each tank contains In-tank pumps which transfer the LNG to recondenser. LNG from the recondenser is sent to the cryogenic LNG booster pumps, which pressurise the LNG from 8 barg to 110 barg. The pressurised LNG is then sent for re-gasification to the LNG vaporisers i.e., ORV (open rack vaporiser) or SCV (submersed combustion vaporiser). A 13.9 Km, 28-inch pipeline transports this high-pressure gas to the Metering Stations (HMMS and Mora) where the custody transfer takes place. The metering stations are interconnected to GAIL, GSPL and RGTIL pipelines at Mora. Connectivity to Major Gas Pipeline Networks A 13.9 Km, 28 inch pipeline transports high pressure gas to the Hazira Mora Metering Station (HMMS) and Mora Metering Station(GSPL) where the custody transfer takes place. A fibre optic cable laid along the pipeline connects the pipeline controls to the terminal control room which enables the operation of the Metering Station. The pipeline and the metering station are equipped with various protection systems to avoid & minimise any gas leak. A close watch is kept on the pipeline because of its high importance. An emergency procedure is in place to minimise the effect of any gas leak at any location. All the systems are regularly checked for performance to ensure they work when required. Our LNG terminal is situated in the middle of one of the most industrialized areas in the country and has a ready market for gas in the immediate vicinity. Strategically located, Shell LNG Terminal is connected to three major Gas pipeline networks operated by GAIL, GSPL and PIPL. About Us Shell Energy India is a Shell venture, serving Indian customers through a fully-owned and integrated value chain – competitive supply from global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. Products & Services Shell Energy India offers flexible deal structures, risk management capabilities and reliable Gas and LNG supplies. Why chose SEI? Reap the rewards of an integrated energy company and experience energy that’s better for business. We offer the cost-effective energy solutions you need to improve efficiency, meet clean energy targets, and respond to changing demands. LNG Terminal Shell Energy India (SEI) owns and operates a 5 mtpa LNG receiving, storage and regasification terminal at Hazira, Gujarat. Registered office Shell Energy India Private Limited (Formerly known as Hazira LNG Private Limited) Office No. 2008, The Address, Westgate - D Block Nr. YMCA Club, S.G. Highway, Makarba Ahmedabad, Gujarat – 380 051 Tel: +91 79 47554100 Fax: +91 79 47554101 Marketing office Shell Energy India Private Limited (Formerly known as Hazira LNG Private Limited) BG House, Lake Boulevard Hiranandani Business Park, Powai Mumbai, Maharashtra - 400 076 Tel: +91 22 4032 5321 Fax: +91 22 4005 8931 LNG Terminal Shell Energy India Private Limited (Formerly known as Hazira LNG Private Limited) Village & PO: Hazira Ta. Choryasi, Dist. Surat Gujarat - 394 270 Tel: +91 261 4151 005 Fax: +91 261 4151 360 Contact us online at https://www.shell.in/business-customers/shell-energy-india.html Or by email at GXSEI-Marketing@shell.com Hazira Port Pvt LtdThe first all-weather LNG led multi-cargo port in India. Brief Summary This section contains general information on the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Read More Information for Ships Detailed localised information for arriving ship masters/operators. This information does not replace the advice provided in the Admiralty Sailing Directions for this area. Read More Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Read More Pollution & Environment Expectations form each calling vessel with respect to the MARPOL (marine pollution) requirements at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Read More Port Tariff View the details on the tariff levied at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Read More Agreement with Adani Details on the agreement with Adani to provide a non-LNG cargo facility at Hazira. Read More Contact Us Key contacts details for Hazira Port Pvt Ltd. Read More Shell Aviation Shell Aviation is an industry leader with a truly global reach. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Brief SummaryThis section contains general information on the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. The Hazira Port Located on the west coast of India the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. is approximately 25 km from Surat city and 250 km from Mumbai. Strategic Location: The port has a great potential to serve as a 'Gateway Port' catering to diversified industry clusters in the hinterlands of North, West and Central India. These hinterlands together contribute about 65% of country’s containerized traffic. Port location is strategic. Major industrial clusters are located within 200km reach of the port, in the Vadodara-Ankleswar-Hazira-Vapi belt. This industrially vibrant belt has the honor of being the largest industrial cluster in India. In addition, at least 12 Special Economic Zones (SEZs) fall in the Vadodara-Hazira belt, resulting in escalation of demand for container port facilities. The port also falls well within the planned Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) and the industries within Vadodara-Vapi. The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. is strategically located on the country’s transport infrastructure arterial network- just 25 km away from Delhi-Mumbai mainline rail route and about 40km distant from National Highway (NH-8) Port Design A : Current Facilities Designed as a deep-water, all-weather direct-berthing multi-cargo port, the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. has been built with a protected harbor design, with 2 breakwaters and an additional waterfront being used by non-LNG cargo handling facilities., The fully functional port with a short approach channel of ~1km and draft of ~12m includes LNG jetty with an LNG storage and re-gasification terminal. Operational since April 2005 with an investment of about USD 700 million (over Rs. 3,000 crore), Shell Energy India Pvt Ltd (formerly Hazira LNG Pvt Ltd) & Hazira Port Pvt Ltd is among the largest international greenfield investments in India. Adani Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. has additionally developed two container jetties and four Multipurpose jetties in the non-LNG Port area. For details of non- LNG port services, please visit www.adanihaziraport.com B: Future Development The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. has adequate water front and large port-backup area , with ample land for yards and an integrated logistics park, sufficient for development of several non-LNG cargo terminals and in particular container cargo terminals. Other planned facilities are Liquid Terminal (for clean oils, chemicals), RoRo Car Carrier Terminal, General Cargo terminals, Shipyard & services for Offshore Exploration industry. Rail & Road Connectivity The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. is linked to both NH-6 and NH-8 (part of Golden Quadrilateral road network) connecting to the arterial National Highway between Delhi & Mumbai and traverses further to Central India. To further improve road logistics, the government is planning 6-lane widening of the existing roads between port and the national and state highways. A number of infrastructure initiatives are strengthening the Port linkages to key industrial and export hubs. The Gujarat Industrial Development Board (GIDB) has envisaged a multi-modal transport corridor from Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. connecting to rail and road trunk routes. The Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), Industries, Roads and other Departments as well as Gujarat Maritime Board of the Government of Gujarat have progressed planning of the proposed rail and road corridors. Indian Railways also plans to connect the port to the proposed Delhi-Mumbai Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) with a spur line of about 35km. This future linkage will enhance port’s connectivity. Information for Ships Detailed localised information for arriving ship masters/operators. This information does not replace the advice provided in the Admiralty Sailing Directions for this area. Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Pollution & Environment Expectations form each calling vessel with respect to the MARPOL (marine pollution) requirements at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Information for ShipsDetailed localised information for arriving ship masters/operators. This information does not replace the advice provided in the Admiralty Sailing Directions for this area. Port Lay out Layout of the first all-weather LNG led multi-cargo port in India. Read More General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt Ltd. Read More Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Read More Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. Read More LNG Jetty Description Detailed description of the LNG Jetty structure, fixtures and limitations. Read More LNG Berth Approach and Mooring process at the LNG berth. Read More Control & Security General description of surveillance and security management. Read More Conditions of Use Details of the 'Conditions of Use' (COU) that are applicable for all incoming LNG vessels. Read More Weather General guidance on the seasonal weather patterns and infrequent cyclones at Hazira, Gujarat. Read More LNG Ship Design Data Description of minimum and maximum sizes of LNG vessels acceptable at Hazira, Gujarat. Read More LNG Vessel Acceptance Details of the processes to be completed prior to any LNG vessel accepted to call Hazira. Read More LNG Vessel Mooring/Unmooring Applicable process related to mooring at Hazira and maintenance of position during discharging. Read More Facility & Services at LNG Berth Description of various facilities available to calling LNG vessels and their crew. Read More Details Magdalla Group of Ports Contact details of Gujarat Maritime Board and Vessel Traffic Information System. Read More Brief Summary This section contains general information on the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Pollution & Environment Expectations form each calling vessel with respect to the MARPOL (marine pollution) requirements at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Port LayoutLayout of the first all-weather LNG led multi-cargo port in India. The multi-cargo all weather port shows the common entrance channel for all LNG and non-LNG shipping traffic, the turning circle, the LNG jetty at the North end and the complete AHPPL basin with all non-LNG berths at the South Eastern part of the Port. The complete harbor is protected by two breakwaters leading into trestles at the North and South ends. Layout of the first all-weather LNG led multi-cargo port in India General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. General Description - LNG PortApproaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. pilot will board the LNG carrier well south of General Lighterage Area as a precautionary measure to pass vessels at anchor in the General Lighterage Area with a pilot on board. The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Control will be listening on VHF Channel 16 and 69. Magdalla Port Control is listening on VHF Channel 16 and 09. The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd.: approach and entry The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. waters are two miles wide with a dredged approach channel of 1200 meters long. The tugs will be made fast before the ships enter this dredged channel. The channel has been dredged to – 13m CD and is marked by two navigational buoys at the seaward end, two navigational markers on each breakwater end and leading lights, 070-250 degrees. Inside the harbour there is a turning circle with a 300 m radius, also dredged to –13 m CD. The berth pocket has been dredged to – 13m CD. Maneuvering the ships in and out of the port has been extensively tested on simulators. Port entry will be done with adequate tugs attached with an additional tug in assistance if required. There can be strong tidal cross currents in the dredged channel. The pilots will be assisted with a PPU, Personal Pilot Unit. The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Anchorage The recommended anchorage is in a location approximately 11 miles SW of the harbour, outside the Magdalla Port Limits, where the sea bottom is sand and is of good holding ground. Anchoring is prohibited within Port Limits, unless the anchor is used temporarily to support vessel maneuvering or in case of an emergency. An alternative anchorage is located just outside of the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. limits in the Sutherland Channel Tanker Anchorage where the water depth is more than 20 meters and the sea bottom is sand and is of good holding ground. Spring tidal currents however are very strong and in excess of 4.5 knots. The Magdalla Port controls this anchorage, which lies within the Magdalla Port Limits, and free use of this anchorage must be agreed with VTS (East). Charts Vessels visiting the Port must have on board a sufficient range of current Hydrographic Charts relevant to the Area. These charts must be kept up to date with regards to Notices to Mariners and other Notices issued for the area. Indian Charts 2101 – APPROACHES TO HAZIRA and 2034 - HAZIRA PORT (1:10000) are available through the usual sources or on request through the agent. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. LNG Jetty Description Detailed description of the LNG Jetty structure, fixtures and limitations. Harbour DetailsAccess for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Approach channel An entrance channel connects the port with the deep water of the Sutherland Channel. The dredged depth of minus 13 meter CD allows for arrival and departure of LNG carriers up to a draft of 12.3 m. The straight approach channel has a clear width of 700 m at the seaside tapering off to a width of 470 meter between the breakwaters to allow unobstructed easy entrance/departure of ships. The orientation of the approach channel is heading 070 - 250 degrees north. Turning basin and LNG berth pocket The port contains a turning basin with a radius of 300 meter for the maneuvering of Tug assisted LNG-Carrier during berthing and un-berthing. The depth of the basin and the LNG-Carrier berth is such that the LNG-Carrier is able to leave the berth for all water levels and remain in the berth pocket under all tidal conditions [including LAT]. The depth at the berth pocket is CD -13 m. Breakwaters The breakwaters provide protection for the berth from the SW monsoon waves and swell and for the currents parallel to the coastline. The causeway provides access to the LNG jetty and is at such a level that flooding under design still water conditions is prevented. Non- LNG Harbour details For non-LNG Harbour details, please go to www.adanihaziraport.com General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. LNG Jetty Description Detailed description of the LNG Jetty structure, fixtures and limitations. Port Facility StructureGeneral description of the Port and its facilities. Major Assets 5 ASD Tugs: 2 tugs of 70mT Bollard pull each & 3 tugs of 55mT Bollard pull each. 800 mtrs Long Trestle. LNG berth with Mooring and Breasting Dolphins, Unloading Platform with 3 nos. Unloading arms (Chiksans), pipelines connecting the Storage tanks and Unloading Arms. Two Container and Four Multipurpose berths owned and operated by AHPPL Port Operations Centre with Crisis Control Room, equipped with radar, AIS VHF, Radar Tower, all navigational equipment. Port Support and Services Pilotage Tugs and mooring facilities Ships Stores, Crew Change Immigration and Customs Waste disposal Tugs All vessels berthing at Hazira must use the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. tugs operated by Adani Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. (AHPPL). General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. LNG Jetty Description Detailed description of the LNG Jetty structure, fixtures and limitations. LNG Jetty DescriptionDetailed description of the LNG Jetty structure, fixtures and limitations. The berth of the LNG jetty is orientated 225° North to minimize the anticipated downtime as a result of the combination of wind, waves and swell. The LNG jetty consists of: Four breasting and five mooring dolphins fitted with fenders and quick release hooks and accessible by catwalks. Fenders frontal pads are designed for hull pressures upto 200kpa and all mooring hooks are of 125 ts each. Parallel Body 110 to 165 meters. An unloading platform with a concrete deck providing support for piping and equipment. Fitted with 3 unloading arms (2liquid and 1 vapour) 16” LVL ANSI 150. Spacing between arms 4m. Liquid arms flow rate 5500 cubic meters per hour for each arm. A trestle to shore accommodating piping, cables and a roadway for personnel access and small vehicles. The LNG jetty is equipped with a mooring load monitoring system, a berthing aid system and an environmental monitoring system. Make Marimatec range 0 to 200 meters. ESD (Emergency Shut Down) are Fiber optic make Marimatec six way plug connector reel located near the gangway and also an Electric system make Marimatec 37 way Pyle national connector. Jetty is provide with a shore gangway located 16m aft of after Loading arm. Fore and aft slew 3.98 meters. Height limit above datum Min – 8.0 meters and Max – 28 meters. Limiting arrival and departure conditions are as follows Maximum current at the start of the approach channel is 2 knots Maximum current at one ship’s length outside the breakwater is 1.5 knots. Current strength must be diminishing towards the port entrance to allow for a positive direction of turning into the port. Cross- currents in opposite directions are not acceptable. Such situations exist one-hour after HW and LW. Minimum UKC = 2.5 meters. The concluded limiting wave height is Hs = 1.75 m in combination with a wind speed of U = 10 m/s [30 s gust speed]. During LNG discharge – If wind >30 knots stop unloading and second tug on standby. If wind > 35 knots remove gangway, tugs alongside and disconnect loading arms. If wind > 40 knots consider unberthing. In case of electrical storms - Stop discharge, close all ship tank valves and vents until storm has cleared the terminal and poses no further threat. In case of rolling or list at the berth - Stop discharge if vessel rolls 2 degree. i.e. 1 degree either side of the upright position. Discuss weather forecast and decide on further action. The actual decision to berth or unberth the vessel depends on many factors, which can only be assessed by the Pilot or the Master. The above parameters may not therefore be strictly observed by the Pilot in consultation with the Master. If it becomes necessary for a ship to vacate the berth before completion of discharge as a result of unexpected adverse weather conditions, then re-berthing of the ship will only be undertaken after the weather conditions have again returned to within the above criteria. Unloading platform The unloading platform provides support for the main and auxiliary equipment. Two fire monitors are installed at the corner of the Platform. This fire monitor is able to cover the complete loading arm area of the platform. Fire proofing/cold splash protection All members above main deck level supporting the main piping are fireproofed. Additional cover is provided as cold splash protection to concrete and steel structures, which are in the immediate exposure to spills and critical for the stability of the jetty. Cracking of the concrete cover in the event of a cold splash and subsequent need for repair can be accepted. However, the structure is protected from failure of the concrete deck under a LNG spill. Berthing Aid System Once the ship is positioned in front of the jetty head, two laser transceivers will monitor its movement. They inform in real time the pilot about speed and direction of the stern and the bow of the ship by means of a large display screen located on MD 3. Two sets of three lamps (one stern and one bow are installed on display frame for speed indication as follows: Green Safe speed cm/s 0 to 10 Amber Cautionary speed cm/s 10 to 15 Red Dangerous speed cm/s Above 15 The pilot display unit information shall be clearly visible, in day as well as night-time, to the naked eye at a distance of 200 m under "normal" weather condition, i.e. no rain, fog. Mooring load Monitoring System This system consists of a number of strain gauges, installed in the mooring hooks, which convert the tension forces in the mooring lines to electric signal. The aim of this system is to provide continuous monitoring of mooring line loads. The ship is moored on five mooring dolphins and the four breasting dolphins. On each mooring hook, sensors are positioned to measure the strain exerted by the ship on each mooring line. Max. Working Load of Mooring Hooks :: 125 Ts Load Monitoring System High Load Alarm setting :: 30 Ts General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. LNG BerthApproach and Mooring process at the LNG berth. Vessels will berth starboard side alongside. From the turning circle the LNG ship will move, in reverse, with the bow into the predominantly SW-ly wind into a position parallel to the jetty, maximum 75 meters away and with the vessel stopped in the water. The tugs will pull the LNG ship backwards and the ships rudder and engines will be used to control the astern speed and to maintain the ideal heading of 225 degrees. The tugs will then push the vessel onto the breasting dolphins. To avoid damage to the jetty fenders the vessel should be landed squarely on the fenders with a contact speed not exceeding 16 cm/second. The LNG Jetty is equipped with a speed of approach device. Only after the vessel has been positioned and is being held alongside the berth by the tugs, should mooring lines be passed to shore. The sequence of mooring (where applicable) is as follows:- Forward and after backsprings. BD 1 or BD 2 and BD 3 or BD 4 Head and stern lines to MD 1 and MD 5. Breast lines forward and aft to MD 2 and MD 4. Breast lines aft to MD 3. All heaving lines for the forward and aft moorings should be passed to breasting dolphins BD1 and BD4 where they will be attached to the messengers by the shore mooring gang. The messenger can then be hauled on board the vessel and secured to the appropriate mooring line. Only one mooring line should be attached to the shore messenger Attempting to secure more than one mooring line on a single messenger is unsafe and will only extend the time taken to complete the mooring operation. In the interests of safety and until all mooring lines have been passed to a particular dolphin, it is extremely important that the ship’s crew do not heave on any mooring lines until the Loading Supervisor has confirmed by radio to the pilot that all shore personnel are clear of the mooring dolphin concerned. When unmooring under normal circumstances mooring lines will be released and recovered by the ship starting with outer mooring dolphins, forward and aft (MD1 & MD6), with back-springs being the final lines to be released. Mooring lines to be released must be slacked down into the water before the shore mooring crew will release the hook. Once the line has been released the pilot will be informed by radio and will confirm with the ship’s Master that it is safe to recover the mooring line. On no account should the ship’s crew heave on mooring lines until they are advised to do so by the Pilot. Berth throughput The cargo throughput capacity of the LNG berth is 11,000 m3/hr. General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. Control & SecurityGeneral description of surveillance and security management. The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. is ISPS compliant. It is also ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified. Access to the LNG Jetty and Port Crafts Berth is from the northern causeway. The access to this causeway is from within the Terminal area. A security guard house is located at the entrance of the causeway, which will check all personnel entering the causeway. A port control room with radar and AIS is manned 24 hrs a day. One tug is on stand-by and available to patrol the port waters. The port control building houses the Crisis Control Room. The Crisis Control Room and Port Control Room are equipped with radar, AIS, VHF, and communication equipment. Access to this building is restricted by means of automated access control system. View our ISO Certification ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System standard Validity: 04 May 2021 - 03 May 2024 ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System standard Validity: 04 May 2021 - 03 May 2024 General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. Conditions of UseDetails of the 'Conditions of Use' (COU) that are applicable for all incoming LNG vessels. Please note that the COU document needs to be accepted and signed by the Master of all incoming vessels prior to entering the Port. General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. WeatherGeneral guidance on the seasonal weather patterns and infrequent cyclones at Hazira, Gujarat. General The climate at Hazira is tropical and may be characterized by annually recurring seasons: Period Season Characteristics Mid Jun-Sept SW monsoon Winds mod-strong SW, Occasional cyclones Oct-Nov Interim period Winds lighter, Occasional cyclones Dec-Feb NE monsoon Winds light NE, effectively no cyclones March-Mid June Hot season Winds mod-strong SW, May/June frequent mostly distant cyclones Wind conditions The wind velocities presented above are based on statistical information. The prevailing wind direction is 250° Cyclones Between 1877 and 1982 [105 years] 8 cyclones hit the region, out of which 6 cyclones were of a severe nature, with wind speeds exceeding 24.2 m/s. This results in an average of one cyclone every 13 to 17 years [only the severe storms are counted]. Air temperature Information regarding air temperature has been obtained from the nearby Surat airport. Summary of results are provided in the following table: Month Daily max. [oC] Daily min [oC] Highest in the month [oC] Lowest in the month [oC] Nov, Dec, Jan, Feb 32 16 36 10 March, April, May 36 24 42 20 June, July, August 32 26 35 24 Sept, October 35 24 38 19 General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. LNG Ship Design DataDescription of minimum and maximum sizes of LNG vessels acceptable at Hazira, Gujarat. Design LNG Carriers Minimum Maximum Capacity 75,000 218,000 m3 Displacement tonnage 56,000 147,000 tonnes Length over all [LOA] 260 317 m Length between perpendiculars 232 303 m Moulded depth 21 28 m Maximum eccentricity centre line manifold aft N/A 3.5 m Maximum eccentricity centre line manifold fore 65 31 m Manifold height above sea level 18 26 m Length parallel body at waterline 100 110 – 165 m Centre line manifold to end of parallel body aft [min.] 52 50 m Centre line manifold to end of parallel body fore [min.] 40 24 m Beam 35 50 m Maximum draft 9.45 12.3 m Minimum draft 9 9.5 m Number of mooring lines 12 16 - Diameter mooring lines 44SW 44SW mm Brake holding capacity 80 80 Tonnes Minimum breaking load 125 125 Tonnes Circumference tail 96 96 mm Pretension mooring lines 15 15 Tonnes Distr. head/breast fore/springs fore, aft/breast/ aft/stern 2/2/2/2/2/2 3/3/2/2/3/3 Vessels as small as 75,000m3 could be safely moored depending on length of parallel side, and subject to the height of the manifold above the waterline remaining within the range of 18.0 to 26.0 m. General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. LNG Vessel AcceptanceDetails of the processes to be completed prior to any LNG vessel accepted to call Hazira. All the vessels nominated for the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. for loading or discharging operations should be of acceptable standards for operation at the jetties. Only vessels which have been vetted and entered as 'Approved' in the GMAS system of STASCO will be accepted at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. This confirmation has to be repeated for all vessels for each call (even for the same vessel). Additionally, the Port team with Liaise with the vessel operators to confirm Compatibility between the vessel and the Terminal. This will also include an Optimoor study. Any vessel incompatible with the terminal will not be able to call at the port. Vessel Port Stay During vessel stay in the port, a ship inspection will be carried out by BM/LM, with the knowledge of ships captain, to highlight any deficiencies observed during berthing, un-berthing, discharging operations of the vessel. If any deficiencies are observed by the Pilot/BM, he will enter same in the S.A.F.E inspection report. A copy will be sent to STASCO. Record of the vessel deficiency will be maintained in the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Control. Same ship will not be accepted in the Hazira unless a corrective action has been confirmed by ship owners through STASCO. General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. LNG Vessel Mooring/UnmooringApplicable process related to mooring at Hazira and maintenance of position during discharging. It is the responsibility of the Ship’s Master to ensure that his vessel remains securely moored at all times. A mooring load monitoring system (MLMS) has been installed on the LNG jetty. Mooring boats are not used at the Terminal. All moorings will be passed from ship to shore using a combination of ship’s heaving line and shore messenger on an endless loop. This applies to both the LNG and MOF jetties. This mooring procedure requires close co-operation between ship’s crew and shore mooring gang to ensure a smooth and safe mooring operation. The Terminal’s general service launch (GSL) is equipped to act as a mooring boat if required, but this will only be used in case of a genuine difficulty, e.g. failure of the mooring dolphin winch. Ships must have a sufficient supply of good quality heaving lines of sufficient length to reach the furthest dolphin as per the agreed mooring plan. The Terminal will provide the messenger lines. Vessel Moving Out of Position Whilst Alongside (all berths) Where a ship has moved out of position a sufficient distance to either, a) activate the ESD system, or b) warrant corrective action in the opinion of the Loading Master; loading will be stopped, loading arm(s) drained, purged and disconnected prior to repositioning the ship. Whenever repositioning of a ship is required pilot and tugs must be in attendance, the ship’s engine readied and shore mooring gang on station. General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. Facility and Services at LNG BerthDescription of various facilities available to calling LNG vessels and their crew. Shore Leave LNG vessels Shore leave is permitted at the Shell Energy India LNG terminal subject to Custom / Immigration permission through the Agent and Port regulations. Visitors to the Ship Persons other than operational staff requiring access to jetties and ships in connection with the discharge of the LNG ship, must obtain permission from the Port Authority to enter the site and secondly have the ship masters approval to board the ship concerned. The request to the Port Authority should be made through the agents after Customs / Immigration permission has been obtained. With the exception of Government officials (police, customs and immigration), ship’s agent and cargo surveyor(s), twenty-four (24) hours’ notice is required for clearance to enter the Port. Visitors should arrange for clearance through the ship’s agent. Persons arriving at the Port without prior notification will not be permitted entry. On no account must visitors walk through the Port area unless accompanied by a member of the Port’s authorised staff. Safety Requirements for Visitors All visitors and ship’s crew transiting the LNG jetty must comply with the Company’s safety requirements. Safety helmet and glasses will be provided by the Company and must be worn at all times whilst in the jetty area. Smoking is not allowed anywhere within the Hazira terminal and Port. Smoking on board ship is also restricted to the rooms nominated and agreed between the ship and Loading Master. A maximum of three rooms may be nominated. Crew Change/Repatriation Crew changes and/or repatriation of individuals is permitted at Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. as well as repatriation on medical or compassionate grounds. Medical Facilities Medical facilities (Doctor) are available at the Terminal’s clinic where most common medical ailments can be dealt with. In the cases where more extensive medical treatment is required, there are hospitals located at Surat. Whenever possible 24 hours notice should be given to the Port Authority of any requirements to make use of medical facilities. Ships Stores Restricted facilities are available at the LNG berth for taking stores however storing is not permitted during LNG discharge operations. Bunkering There are no bunkering facilities available at Hazira. The internal transfer of bunkers on board ship whilst in the Port and alongside the Terminal’s jetty is strictly prohibited. Sources of Ignition The carrying of equipment (unless Approved Equipment) and/or use of matches, lighters or other possible sources of ignition, which includes battery-operated equipment, e.g. mobile phones, smart watches and cameras, is prohibited. Fishing Fishing within the LNG Security Zone is prohibited at all times. This includes fishing from the Terminal jetty, foreshore, marine craft or from LNG tankers berthed alongside. General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. Details Magdalla Group of PortsContact details of Gujarat Maritime Board and Vessel Traffic Information System. Person in charge Port Officer Address Gujarat Maritime Board, Magdolla, Group of Ports, Surat - 395001 Phone +91-0261-2470533 (G), +91-0261-2463781 (D) Fax +91-0261-2475645 Gram Portal, Magdalla E-mail pomagdalla@gmail.com Other Important VHF Channels VTMS Khambhat (E) VHF 16 and 09 Reliance Marine Operation VHF Ch 67 Essar Marine Operations VHF Ch 71 General Description - LNG Port Approaches for ships to Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Harbour Details Access for ships into Hazira (Surat) Port. Port Facility Structure General description of the Port and its facilities. Vessel CommunicationView the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Messages Communication requirement from vessels prior calling Hazira. Read More Documentation Documentation requirement for vessel clearance. Read More Brief Summary This section contains general information on the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Information for Ships Detailed localised information for arriving ship masters/operators. This information does not replace the advice provided in the Admiralty Sailing Directions for this area. Pollution & Environment Expectations form each calling vessel with respect to the MARPOL (marine pollution) requirements at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. MessagesCommunication requirement from vessels prior calling Hazira. General To assist in planning and to satisfy contractual obligations, apart from the PANS, the following pre-arrival messages are to be sent both to Hazira Port Control and the LNG Terminal. Messages should also be copied to the ship’s agent. Should there be any changes to the foregoing which might have an impact on ETA’s, the vessels performance or cargo equipment then both Hazira Port Control and LNG Terminal are to be advised immediately. As per latest DG (Shipping) requirements, PANS also to be sent to the Indian Coast Guard All communication shall be sent by facsimile and E-mail addressed to: The Hazira Port Control Fax no. +91 261 3051158, Tel. no. +91 261 3051165 E-mail: hlpl-haz-portcontrol@shell.com On Departure from Load Port AA Ship’s name and call sign BB Departure date and time CC Advise ETA and arrival draught at Hazira. DD Bill of Lading details and other cargo info EE Boil off rate FF Estimated time for discharge GG Any known deficiencies affecting port performance During Voyage If the ETA deviates more than 12 hours from that initially advised on departure and/or there are any changes to DD, EE or FF then Port & Terminal must be advised. 72 Hours prior to arrival AA Ship’s name and call sign BB Update ETA 48 Hours Prior to Arrival AA Ship’s name and call sign BB ETA and arrival draft CC Estimated cargo tank temperatures and tank pressure DD Confirm the following have been tested and/or are fully Operational: Navigation, mooring, safety & engine systems Cargo system & boil off control systems. Gas detection systems ESD system, alarms and interlocks Cargo tank high level alarms High & Low pressure alarms Remotely operated valves Cargo lines are free of oxygen No tank leakages If the ETA changes by more than 6 hours following the issue of the 96 hours message and before sending the 24 hour message then the revised ETA must be advised to the Port. 24 hours before arrival AA Ship’s name and call sign BB Confirm ETA CC Send pratique message via ship’s agent If the ETA changes by more than 6 hours following the issue of the 96 hours message and before sending the 24 hours message, then the revised ETA must be advised to the Port. AA AA Ship’s name and call sign BB Confirm ETA VHF contact with Hazira Port Control VHF Contact with Hazira Port Control should be established on VHF Channel 16/69 at the earliest opportunity in order to obtain information on berthing, weather and availability of pilot. Departure Communications (On departure from Hazira Port) AA Ship’s name and call sign BB Outstanding Port Log items Communications with VTMS Khambhat: Attention of Ship Masters and Agents is drawn to the reporting requirements & regulations of VTMS Khambhat as promulgated in the relevant Admiralty List of Radio Stations and www.aatash.com Attention of Ship Masters and Agents of non-LNG vessels is also drawn to www.adanihaziraport.com for additional information Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Documentation Documentation requirement for vessel clearance. DocumentationDocumentation requirement for vessel clearance. Immigration and Customs The following documents are required by shore authorities upon arrival for Clearance of the Vessel 1 Customs Authority Original Last Port Clearance Maritime Declaration of Health Vaccination List Voyage Memo (Ports called in last 30 days or last 10 ports of call) with arrival and departure dates and security levels) Bill of Lading, Cargo Manifest and Transit Cargo if any List of Ships Stores Including Bonded Stores and Deck Store Personal Effects Declaration with Crew Currency Ships Currency Declaration Nil Lists (If there are no Passengers, Stowaways, Animals, Arms, Ammunitions) List of Narcotic Medicines Crew List (Name, Rank, nationality, Passport Number, Seamen book number, Date of and Place, Place of Embarkation) Following Statutory Certificates Ship Registry Certificate, ISPS Certificate International Load Line Certificate Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate Cargo Ship Radio Certificate Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate International Oil Pollution Certificate Deratting Exemption Certificate 2. Quarantine Authority At Hazira, the customs-boarding officer usually gives quarantine (Free Pratique) But if the vessel is coming from Yellow Fever area, Port Health Officer from Kandla will board the vessel. Following set of documents are required any ways- Crew List Maritime Declaration of Health Vaccination List Deratting Certificate 3. Immigration Authority Custom Authorities carry out the additional charge of clearing the vessel on behalf of Immigration. For Sign on and Sign off of Foreign Nationals, 48 hours’ notice with confirmed air ticket is required. Ships Agent will have to get Landing permission from the local police. For Indian Nationals, above is not applicable. Documents required in case of Crew Change (Foreign or Indian national) Crew List Personal Effects Declaration Sign/Sign off crew passport 4. Port Authority (Hazira Port Pvt Ltd) Following Documents required by Port Authority (can also be sent electronically) – Bill of Lading, Cargo Manifest, Transit Cargo List - 1 Copy Crew List - 1 Copy Following Statutory Certificates - 1 Copy each Ship Registry Certificate, ISPS Certificate International Load line Certificate Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate Cargo Ship Radio Certificate Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate International Oil Pollution Certificate Derating Exemption Certificate The following documents are required by the Shell Energy India LNG terminal for Cargo Clearance Sale and Purchase Agreement or detailed contracts Sale and Purchase Agreement or detailed contracts Commercial Invoice Original Bill of Lading Certificate of Origin Certificate of Quality Certificate of Quantity Load Port Ullage Report (Pre and Post Loading) Last 3 documents will require signature of independent surveyor. Other documents will be prepared and given by importer in consultation with CHA. Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Messages Communication requirement from vessels prior calling Hazira. Pollution & EnvironmentExpectations form each calling vessel with respect to the MARPOL (marine pollution) requirements at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Sea Water Pollution Advice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Read More Ballast Water Advice to Masters in line with International Ballast water convention requirements. Read More Air Pollution Advice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Read More Oil Spill Response Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd’s Oil Spill Response Policy & Capabilities. Read More Brief Summary This section contains general information on the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Information for Ships Detailed localised information for arriving ship masters/operators. This information does not replace the advice provided in the Admiralty Sailing Directions for this area. Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Sea Water PollutionAdvice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Shell Energy India LNG Terminal and the Hazira Port are situated in a protected coastal mangrove area bordering on protected forestland and pollution of any description, from whatever source, will be viewed extremely seriously and must be reported immediately to the Indian Coast Guard. This is a statutory requirement of the Government of India. All vessels visiting the Hazira Port must be in full compliance with the current MARPOL requirements. Avoidance of Pollution: Please also note the following measures, which will assist in avoiding pollution: No oil or mixture containing oil shall be discharged or allowed to escape from a vessel while at the Hazira Port or within the Hazira Port Limits. No garbage or other materials, either liquid or solid, shall be discharged overboard from a vessel, but shall be retained in suitable receptacles on board. Whilst within the Hazira Port Limits the internal transfer of any oil, slops or bunkers on board is prohibited. In the event of any leakage or spillage of oil or oil contaminated liquids on board, the Loading Master and Terminal Shift Supervisor must be advised immediately in order that discharge operations can be stopped until the spill has been cleaned up. Absorbent swabs or sawdust used for mopping up such spills shall be collected and removed ashore for disposal. During the discharge or loading of petroleum products, deck scuppers and drain holes must be suitably plugged. Any excess water that may accumulate must be drained off as required. Drip trays must be placed under manifold connections, and any accumulation of water drained off at regular intervals. During LNG discharge operations scuppers should be closed, however a careful watch should be maintained to ensure that any buildup of water on deck is drained off. Prior to commencement and at regular intervals throughout discharge, regular checks are to be made to ensure that oil or oily water is not escaping through sea valves. Overboard discharge valves through which oil could escape shall be lashed in the shut position during the vessel’s stay alongside. Where lashing is not practicable a suitable means of marking the valves should be used to clearly indicate that the valves are to remain closed. Where ballasting is to take place in systems that have previously been used for cargo, sea inlet valves shall not be opened before pump suction has been established. Unused cargo and bunker connections must be closed and blanked. Blank flanges shall be fully bolted with the gaskets in place and other types of fittings, if used, properly secured. Ballast Water Advice to Masters in line with International Ballast water convention requirements. Air Pollution Advice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Oil Spill Response Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd’s Oil Spill Response Policy & Capabilities. Ballast WaterAdvice to Masters in line with International Ballast water convention requirements. There are no ballast reception facilities at Hazira Port therefore all ships must arrive with clean ballast in segregated ballast tanks (SBT). Only clean ballast water from SBT tanks can be discharged overboard, subject to inspection and approval by the Loading Master. All ballast water contained in tanks, not designated as SBT, must be retained on board. Minimum Ballast water Quality The Government of India has indicated that it may implement unilaterally the provisions of IMO Draft Regulations for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water to minimize the Transfer of Harmful Aquatic Organisms and Pathogens (MEPC 39/7). This will require all ships intending to discharge clean ballast in Indian waters to have carried out a complete change of ballast water at a distance of at least 50 miles from the Indian coastline. Under IMO Draft Regulation B-4 Ballast Water Exchange, all ships using ballast water exchange should: Whenever possible, conduct ballast water exchange at least 200 nautical miles from the nearest land and in water at least 200 metre in depth, taking into account Guidelines developed by IMO; In cases where the ship is unable to conduct ballast water exchange as above, this should be as far from the nearest land as possible, and in all cases at least 50 nautical miles from the nearest land and in water at least 200 metre in depth. Sea Water Pollution Advice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Air Pollution Advice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Oil Spill Response Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd’s Oil Spill Response Policy & Capabilities. Air PollutionAdvice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Company agreements with the Government of Gujarat strictly limit the emission levels of hydrocarbon vapour from the Hazira plant. Although it is recognized in these agreements that some ship operations will involve the emission of hydrocarbon vapour to atmosphere during discharge ships co-operation is requested to ensure that such emissions are kept to the absolute minimum. Sea Water Pollution Advice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Ballast Water Advice to Masters in line with International Ballast water convention requirements. Oil Spill Response Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd’s Oil Spill Response Policy & Capabilities. Oil Spill ResponseHazira Port Pvt. Ltd’s Oil Spill Response Policy & Capabilities. The Hazira Port Oil Spill Response Plan The Oil Spill response plan has been prepared as per the directives of the Indian Coast Guard and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board. In spite of ‘almost zero leak design’ of the terminal facilities and the fact that any spilled LNG will not pollute the marine environment there could be some discharges of fuel oil into the port either from the tugboats operating in the port or from the LNG carrier. In the event of such an occurrence a speedy and appropriate response action is required from the Port Authority with port owned and operated equipment to contain the spill and minimize the environmental damage (Tier-I Response). Secondly the Hazira Port will have to be capable to assist the neighboring Port of Magdalla in case of a significant oil spill in its waters (Magdalla Tier-II Response), thirdly the Hazira Port will have to assist the Indian Coast Guard, when instructed to do so, in case of a major oil spill threatening the Indian Coastline as outlined in the Indian National Oil Spill Contingency Plan (Tier-III Response) and fourthly the Shell Group has organized it’s oil spill response capability in regional Oil Spill Team Resource Networks. For the Middle East and India the network is called OSTRIMESA. Any Shell Business Unit in the region, requiring support to respond to a significant oil-spill incident can request trained manpower assistance from other Shell Business Units in the area. (STASCO-ordinated Group Response) The Hazira Port Oil Spill Response Plan identifies our spill response organizational structure, responsibilities, communications and procedures to respond to oil spill emergencies. Objective The objectives of the Oil Spill Response Plan are as follows: Ensure the safety of the personnel in the event of an oil spill Minimize the environmental impact of an oil spill Protect the shareholders assets Minimizing business disruption Minimizing risk of damage to the Group’s reputation Minimizing harm to the people The plan is intended to assist in dealing with an accidental discharge of oil. Its primary purpose is to set in motion the necessary actions to stop or minimize the discharge and to mitigate its effects. The plan guides the HPPL Management, Port Authority, Harbour Master and his Duty Staff through the decisions, which will be required in an incident response. The tables, figures and checklists provide a visible form of information, thus reducing the chance of oversight or error during the early stages of dealing with an emergency situation. Oil Spill Response Policy Prevention of accidental spillage is the HPPL’s first priority. All the facilities are designed, installed and operated to minimize possibility of oil spill. Facilities and resources supplied by third parties are also required to meet international pollution prevention design and operation standards. HPPL shares the community concern for the protection of the natural environment from oil spills. The company is committed to integrate into its plans and operations and to identify oil spill risks. To achieve this HPPL will, Respond immediately to any incident with the objective of protecting human life and to minimize environmental impacts Work and consult with appropriate with appropriate government bodies, and the local community to address any issues relating to oil spills in a timely manner Provide adequate training and information to enable employees and contractors to adopt environmentally responsible work practices, to be aware of the responsibilities in the prevention and clean up of oil spills Develop emergency plans and procedure so that incidents (accidental releases) can be responded to in a timely manner Develop and maintain management systems to identify, control and monitor risks and compliance with government regulations and industry guidelines Where third party interests are involved, such as products and or chartered vessels, the company will assess the situation and take timely and appropriate action Each employee is responsible for the implementation of this policy in association with their specific duties, this includes contractors and their employees. Sea Water Pollution Advice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Ballast Water Advice to Masters in line with International Ballast water convention requirements. Air Pollution Advice to Masters in line with International Marpol requirements. Port TariffView the details on the tariff levied at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Port charges are levied for the use of the Port facilities and the provision of pilotage and tug services as well as berth hire. Port Charges are payable in advance. Following tariff structure is in force for the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd.: For LNG ships: Port Dues: (Payable on each entry into the port) payable to AHPPL Pilotage and Towage Charges: (Payable on each entry into the port) payable to AHPPL Berth Hire Charges for LNG berth: USD 0.047/GRT per 8 hours payable to HPPL The above tariffs are exclusive of any indirect taxes (including Service Tax). If any Indirect tax (including Service Tax) is leviable or assessed to be levied upon HPPL with respect to the above tariffs, the same shall be charged to the LNG ship in addition to the above tariffs. For LNG ship Port Dues, LNG Pilotage & Towage charges and all non-LNG related tariffs, please refer www.adanihaziraport.com Brief Summary This section contains general information on the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Information for Ships Detailed localised information for arriving ship masters/operators. This information does not replace the advice provided in the Admiralty Sailing Directions for this area. Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Agreement with AdaniDetails on the agreement with Adani to provide a non-LNG cargo facility at Hazira. The Adani Group-promoted Mundra Port and Special Economic Zone Ltd (MPSEZL) has signed a sub-concession agreement with Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. and the State's port sector regulator, Gujarat Maritime Board, for development of a non-LNG cargo facility at Hazira. The Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. is the only common user multi-cargo, deep-draft port facility in the south Gujarat region and will be able to handle coal, container, liquid and other cargoes. With an investment of Rs 2500 crores, the master plan of the port provides 12 berths multi-cargo facilities at the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Presently five berths are operational. The project will augment the cargo handling capacity on the west coast and offer an alternative port to customers of northern and central India and added to the rapid economic growth of the state of Gujarat and India. Brief Summary This section contains general information on the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Information for Ships Detailed localised information for arriving ship masters/operators. This information does not replace the advice provided in the Admiralty Sailing Directions for this area. Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. Contact UsKey contacts details for Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Port Manager - Telephone: +91 261 3051301 Harbour Master &PFSO : Telephone: +91 261 3051301 Pilot / Berthing Master & DyPFSO: Telephone: +91 261 3051302 Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Control: Fax: +91 261 3051158 Telephone: +91 261 3051165 E-mail: - hlpl-haz-portcontrol@shell.com Registered Office Address: Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Office No. 2008, The Address, Westgate - D Block Nr. YMCA Club, S. G. Highway, Makarba Ahmedabad, Gujarat India – 380051 Telephone: +91 79 47554100 Fax: +91 79 47554101 Site/Terminal Office Address - Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Via Surat, Hazira, PIN: 394270, Gujarat - INDIA Corporate Identity Number (CIN) Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. CIN : U63010GJ2000PTC038781 Brief Summary This section contains general information on the Hazira Port Pvt. Ltd. Information for Ships Detailed localised information for arriving ship masters/operators. This information does not replace the advice provided in the Admiralty Sailing Directions for this area. Vessel Communication View the mandatory communication protocol and documentation requirements prior to vessel call at Hazira. About Shell EnergyUnder the Shell Energy brand, we provide innovative, reliable and cleaner energy solutions through a portfolio of gas, power, environmental products and energy efficiency offers to businesses and residential customers. The energy market is changing globally. This is driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. Attitudes too are changing, and the demands placed by businesses and households in relation to energy supply are evolving. From energy producers, asset owners, traders, wholesalers and large industrial customers to individual households, our customers are seeking increasingly efficient, innovative and cleaner energy solutions. Through our Shell Energy brand, we offer customers the reliability, simplicity, scale and innovation to help them navigate and find energy solutions that best suit their needs. The brand encompasses two complementary, yet distinct, business units, which together give breadth in energy supply and guide customers to a better energy future. In addition to an established Energy Marketing & Trading business serving customers in Europe, the Americas, Asia and Australia, the Shell Energy brand now extends to the residential sector with the recent home energy launch in Great Britain. This builds on our strength in cleaner energy solutions to offer a genuine alternative for residential customers and guide them towards a better energy future. Shell Energy Marketing & Trading More and cleaner energy solutions for your business Shell Energy Retail Our home energy offer for households in Great Britain Natural gas We are helping to power lives around the world with natural gas, the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon. Renewables and Energy Solutions The global energy system is changing. A planet destined for more people and rising living standards will need more energy. But the world must also find ways to reduce carbon emissions and tackle climate change. Shell’s New Energies business focuses on new fuels and power. The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Shell Energy Marketing & TradingShell Energy Marketing & Trading provides more and cleaner energy solutions across a global portfolio of gas, power and environmental products to meet current and future energy needs of our customers: energy producers, asset owners, traders, wholesalers and large industrial customers. Shell Energy Europe Shell Energy Europe provides your business with advanced and high value solutions for energy assets and commodities, including natural gas, power and CO2 , across a broad range of European markets. Shell Energy US Shell Energy offers a comprehensive suite of tailored products and solutions, including rapidly growing capacity, trading and technical expertise and smart energy solutions, serving customers across the commercial and industrial sectors. Shell Energy Australia Discover more about how Shell Energy provides business energy solutions and innovation across a portfolio of gas, electricity, environmental products and energy productivity solutions to commercial and industrial customers. Shell Energy (China) Limited Shell Energy (China) Limited is a subsidiary company of Shell in China. We offer customers a competitive and diversified portfolio of LNG, CO2 emissions management and strategy options in China. Shell Energy India The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. Shell Energy Singapore Shell Energy Singapore offers reliable and competitive energy solutions with a primary focus on gas. Shell LNG Marketing & Trading Shell LNG Marketing & Trading (SLMT) is one of the most experienced LNG marketers in the world. Shell LNG Marketing & Trading Shell LNG Marketing & Trading (SLMT) is one of the most experienced LNG marketers in the world. Shell Energy Retail Our home energy offer for households in Great Britain Statutory InformationShell Energy Marketing & Trading India Private Limited is in process to secure power trading license from Central Electricity Regulatory Commission. Monthly Compliance Requirement January 2022 February 2022 March 2022 April 2022 May 2022 June 2022 July 2022 August 2022 September 2022 October 2022 November 2022 December 2022 January 2023 February 2023 March 2023 April 2023 May 2023 Following documents have been submitted as part of the application: CERC Trading License Application Public Notice Affidavit for Public Notice Shell LNG Marketing & Trading Shell LNG Marketing & Trading (SLMT) is one of the most experienced LNG marketers in the world. Shell Energy Retail Our home energy offer for households in Great Britain Business customersWe supply advanced transport and industrial lubricants to corporate and distributing companies in many industries worldwide including transport, mining, manufacturing, power generation and home energy. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Shell Aviation Shell Aviation is an industry leader with a truly global reach. Shell AviationShell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Ltd is a 50:50 Joint Venture Company formed in 2008 between Shell and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL). About Shell MRPL Aviation Shell MRPL Aviation Fuels & Services Ltd is a 50:50 Joint Venture Company formed in 2008 between Shell, a global leader in marketing aviation fuel and operating airport fueling facilities, and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL), a subsidiary of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, India’s largest national oil company. Our vision To be the safest, most innovative and preferred partner for aviation fuels and services across India, where people make a difference. Our business We supply Aviation Turbine Fuel (Jet A-1) to our airline customers and ensure services as per Shell Aviation’s world class operational standards. Our customers also get benefits of Shell’s extensive experience in working with airport authorities & stakeholders to improve overall airport safety standards including into-plane fueling, fuel hydrant designs, airport network planning and fuel farm systems. We offer an integrated end to end partnership with Shell, the only multi-national oil company with a government license to market aviation fuels in India and add value to our partners through: International best practices and global standards of safety, quality & operations in supplying Jet fuel Pricing transparency Shell Aviation’s global network of more than 900 airports in 36 countries Acceptance of Shell Carnet and Shell Fuel & Fly Cards Shell’s comprehensive portfolio which offers a range of innovative products and services, including aviation lubricants & risk marketing Visit the Shell Aviation website Industrial Lubricants and Oils for BusinessThe highest quality lubricants alongside proper lubrication processes and services will help you to create and maintain sustainable growth. Explore our wide-ranging portfolio today and discover maintenance solutions rooted in technical expertise and OEM collaboration, that can help you turn potential into productivity. Sector Expertise Get exactly what you need, exactly when you need it with sector-specific lubrication solutions developed by industry experts. Read more about Sector Expertise Services, Applications and Products Protect your systems and progress your business with services, applications and products that cover a wide range of industrial applications. Read more about Services, Applications and Products Sustainability Solutions Explore our sustainable solutions and learn how to keep your environmental goals on track without risking operational success. Read more about Sustainability Solutions Latest from our Perspectives Content Hub Read the latest take on the biggest topics, as leading industry thinkers talk to us about digitalisation, decarbonisation and everything in between. Read more about our Perspectives Content Hub Sector Expertise: Powering progress across industries Find out the sector-specific lubricant solutions offered and developed by Shell industry experts. Fleet Improve your fuel economy, lower your emissions and reduce operating costs, with lubrication procedures that prioritise efficiency. Discover our lubricant solutions for fleet Construction Learn how a simple upgrade to your lubrication could help unlock cost savings and safety improvements in construction. Discover our lubricant solutions for construction Mining and Quarrying Find the solutions you need to keep your mining and quarrying operations safe, sustainable, and successful. Discover our lubricant solutions for mining and quarrying Cement Get lubricant products and services designed to improve the productivity and energy efficiency of your cement operations. Discover our lubricant solutions for cement Agriculture Push your farming operations to the limit by partnering with our technical experts and their bespoke lubrication solutions. Discover our lubricant solutions for agriculture Power See how we can help minimise downtime with expert industry insights across transmission and distribution, turbines and engines. Discover our lubricant solutions for power General Manufacturing Ramp up productivity with manufacturing lubricants and services that are designed to help you get more from your machinery. Discover our lubricant solutions for general manufacturing Metals Get guidance on maintenance, products and service best practice, tailored for steel industry operations. Discover our lubricant solutions for metals Services, Applications and Products Whether you’re looking for greases or gear oils, online training, or oil condition monitoring, get the bespoke lubrication solutions you need to keep up with the competition. Sustainability Solutions: Lubricants to support your sustainability goals For organisations in every sector, sustainability is no longer a choice but a business imperative. Move one step closer to sustainable growth with our range of advanced lubricants and greases designed to support your sustainability ambitions. Sustainable Solutions See how just a few simple changes could help you meet your sustainability goals without having to sacrifice business performance. Carbon Neutral Lubricants Learn more about our extended range of carbon neutral lubricants, designed so you can make sustainable choices that still prioritise performance. Latest from our Perspectives Content Hub Industry has the potential to accelerate the transformation towards a more sustainable society, providing it has access to the right ways of thinking and working. Our Perspectives Content Hub is updated regularly to share the latest insights and ideas from some of the world’s brightest industry thinkers, so business leaders can help realise the full potential of their people and organisations. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Power of PartnershipsAt Shell Lubricants, we’re big believers in the power of partnerships. After all, working together helps us achieve far more. Ram Bhandari – The Bangalore Bat Doctor Ram has been repairing bats for over 25 years and his work goes far beyond simply breaking the bat in. He spends time with each and every cricketer, watching them play and practise to really understand their playing style and to understand what changes he needs to make to help them achieve their best. This deep knowledge of their game, allows him to customize a bat specifically for their needs. His expertise of crafting bats for different playing style and pitch types has seen him customize bats for many of the Indian greats, past and present as well as international players. Brandon Payne – The Basketball Brain Trainer When it comes to brain and body connectivity, Brandon is basketball’s go-to guy. He goes beyond skill and fitness drills - instead he creates expert individualized training programs, which are designed to overload the brain. His training methods focus on working the brain to process information quickly. His theory being that the quicker you can process what you see, the more time you’ll have to make a decision. Research suggests that the best athletes can make decisions 12 times faster than the average person. Brandon works at just about every level of the game, from kids at a grassroots level, all the way through to Golden State Warrior Stephen Curry. After working together for the last seven years, Steph has risen to be one of the best basketball players in the game today and the first unanimous league MVP in history Here at Shell Just like Ram’s & Brandon’s story’s, Shell Lubricants believe that working together with our customers is the key to unlocking their success. It’s why our business is built on the technical expertise of our people, deep industry knowledge and our understanding of building long-term relationships that deliver value to our customers. When we work together, we are more efficient, productive and effective, so when you work with a partner that understands you, your equipment and operating conditions you multiply the benefit. The power of people working together, bringing expertise, knowledge and relationships to the benefit of our customers helping them to perform each day. We know that reducing downtime, increasing productivity and demonstrating sustainable long term value is crucial to your success. That’s why the Power of Partnerships is important to us all. No matter what industry you work in or the type of equipment you use, there is an expert able to help you deliver more effectively. We believe in the power of people, working together for better gain, bringing expertise to improve performance. At Shell Lubricants we see Our: People & Technical Expertise Combined skill and expertise of our people with the technical capability of Shell’s extensive resources bought to bear on a customer’s business that makes a telling difference Combined with Our: Industry Knowledge Our commitment and investment to creating innovative solutions that sets us apart. It’s knowledge gained over many years of listening and learning that enables Shell to bring innovative solutions and insights beyond just lubricants that helps them navigate the future Enable Shell Lubricants To: Build Relationships Our people are committed & passionate to developing long term relationships with customers, distributors, OEMS and prospects alike. Working with you to solve every day challenges, teaches us something new and becomes the inspiration for our innovation. It’s the benefit and differentiation we bring to our customers to enable them to achieve their ambitions, no matter how big or small. A strong relationship adds value to the performance of an individual or a business regardless of their area of expertise, whether it be increasing business productivity or an individual`s sporting output. It is based on a complete understanding of the needs of the individual and what they are looking to achieve. Partnerships represent a collaboration of two people coming together to achieve success. Click here to contact us in your country and find out more. Shell Expertise Discover more ways to optimise your business operations and make your ambitions a reality. Sector Expertise Discover Shell’s expertise in providing our customers the right products and the right advice across various sectors. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell ExpertiseBeyond Shell’s leadership in manufacturing some of the highest quality lubricants in the world, our people and services exist to help businesses discover more ways to optimize operations and get the most of out their vehicles and equipment. See how Shell’s experts help customers to make their ambitions a reality. Our Experts Keep your equipment running smoothly with technical advice, smart new applications and insightful lubricant analysis Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Total Cost of Ownership Achieve better business results and increase your equipment’s value through lowering Total Cost of Ownership using the highest quality lubricants and expert solutions. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Our ExpertsOur people combine a passion for your business with the expertise learned from working with others. This innovative approach allows us to continually provide meaningful technical advice, smart new applications, and insightful lubricant analysis to keep your equipment performing. Discover some of our experts and their tips. Spotlight on Shell experts: Siva Kasturi on working with OEMs and reducing machine downtime As Regional OEM Manager for the Asia-Pacific area, Siva works closely with all the major OEMs in the region. Spotlight on Experts: Greg Paluska Greg leads the technical team for the Eastern region of the US, providing troubleshooting, recommendations and support. Spotlight on Experts: Raghavendran Madhavarao As Marketing Manager for Shell B2B in India, Ragha has over 19 years of experience and a background in mechanical engineering. Spotlight on Experts: Dr. Robert Profilet A product application specialist with a background in product development, responsible for maintenance oils for factories, plants and turbines. Spotlight on Experts: Praveen Nagpal Praveen leads our technical team in India and has been responsible for establishing the Shell Technology Leadership division. Spotlight on Experts: Scott Kwas A Technical Advisor with a background in Aircraft Engineering, Scott has worked for Shell Canada for over a decade. Spotlight on Experts: Gary Roberts A technical advisor for American Northeast, Gary has worked for Shell for over 15 years in technical solutions and sales support. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. In a highly competitive and diverse marketplace, as a supplier you have to do far more than simply provide goods. Customers are more prepared than ever to mix and match depending on criteria that suit their very specific needs. This is good news as it pushes the industry as a whole to innovate and refine. However, it also introduces more layers of complexity to an already challenging landscape. Roberts strongly believes it is the role of Shell Experts to help customers cut through that complexity while maintaining the optimal supplier mix for their needs. Gary is a Technical Advisor for Shell Lubricants, and has worked for Shell for over 16 years. With a background in mining, he is now responsible for providing lubrication technical services in the Northeastern US. Gary says “more and more I’m seeing a mixture within the fleet of mining equipment. Customers are optimising the utilisation rates and testing one piece of equipment against another. They are also looking at the maintenance and machine downtime related to that equipment. Oil change becomes part of reliability-based or predictive maintenance as opposed to just reactive or scheduled procedures. It’s very challenging for them.” Shell Experts such as Roberts are increasingly taking a consultative role, providing the technical service to make sure customers are using the right product and the right application in the right amount at the right time. “It’s more challenging than it ever used to be. A lot of manufacturer (OEM) specifications are very particular to certain makes and models of machines. Now you have five or six different oils for a single wheel loader. We’ll do a lubricant survey which outlines the component as well as the relevant lubricant.” Importance of partnerships The amount of detail involved in putting together the optimal operation can prove overwhelming. This is where years of working in partnership, with the OEMs pays dividends: “It can get very confusing if you have a customer, not uncommonly, with 1,000 pieces of equipment from all these different makes, models and manufacturers. You have to know what product goes in which component.” How environment plays a part Environment is also critical. Roberts’ territory covers the Northeastern United States and so he sees a wide range of conditions that might impact his customers’ equipment performance. “The OEMs making this equipment don’t know if it’s going to Alberta or New Mexico. We have to take a look at their recommendations, figure out what the prevailing conditions might be and make recommendations.” No such thing as one-size-fits-all While Roberts sees his role as simplifying the complex for customers, he warns against over-simplification. As convenient as it might be, he doesn’t believe Shell would be doing its clients a favour if they came up with a one-size-fits-all product. Roberts notes that the levels of expertise Shell’s advisors have is pushing them more and more to the centre of customers’ whole equipment strategy, including providing advice on lubricant regulation (internal link to ‘Regulations and lubricants – why setting standards is good for business’) in the face of changing legislation. With lubricants able to have such a positive – and negative, if wrongly deployed – impact on effectiveness, total cost of ownership and revenue generation, it’s an opportunity not to be missed: “As technical advisors we are being called in sooner, rather than later. Often we come in even in the proposal stage because our customers are looking for the training and consultative approach that Shell experts can provide. Customers want guidance, not just lubricants.” Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Based in Texas, Greg Paluska leads the Eastern US Lubricants Technical Advisor team. With a decade of experience at Shell, Paluska provides coaching and support to 10 technical advisors who cover, he says: “every type of B2B customer you could imagine.” This breadth of experience reflects the challenges that Shell’s Lubricants experts are up against every day. “There are varying degrees of needs or attitudes across sectors but even within sectors across customer groups. Some are pretty well advanced and others – they need a lot more support.” That said, even with his more advanced clients, Paluska notes that “there’s always room for improvement”. Such improvement can range from simply getting good lubricant practices adopted across the organization to sit-down sessions with clients to discuss equipment innovation and how that impacts lubricant recommendations and needs. One expert, 50 minds Collaboration for Paluska is key. Engaging with Shell Lubricants technical experts should always be an opportunity for customers to explore new options, iron out challenges, and generally make use of the vast reservoir of information the experts have access to. Beyond Paluska’s team of 10, there are a further 16 across the North American group alone. Through a single Expert, customers have access to a 50-strong global lubricant hive-mind, which includes coaches and product application specialists. He takes a similar approach to developing the next generation of advisors. It’s vital that any transfer of knowledge isn’t just a data dump and then moving on to the next challenge. “I My role is to work with my team on various challenges and scenarios. I want to make our joint projects somewhere we can work together on a customer project or a site assessment.” Navigating the web of information Digitisation of customer information has presented an interesting challenge to Shell Experts in every field. Increasing education around lubrication has been a goal for many as it makes having conversations around total cost of ownership (TCO), premium lubricants for specific applications, and overall equipment health much easier. But even for those working in these sectors, the information around equipment lubrication needs and best practice can be dense and complex. With the whole of the internet at their disposal and little guidance or editing, self-education is not always the most effective. Finding a way to cut through the forest of information has been one of Paluska’s particular goals. This has led him to work on an internal Shell app development that can support some of the activities account managers and Technical Advisors do for customers on a daily basis. This has increased their efficiency and clarity of communication when it comes to procedures such as product recommendations and calculations. It’s an important cultural shift that Paluska has noticed resonates with his like-minded customer base. “Many of our key customer stakeholders are becoming more and more of the younger generation and the whole idea of apps and Google is second nature to them. Everyone googles everything, including our customers. For Shell, being high on a search engine for gear oil is important. But customers also see their oil analysis report and don’t necessarily know how to read it or they may have a question so they go to Google before anything else. We need to have digital tools that answer this.” Digitisation or not, the role of the Shell Lubricants Technical Advisor will remain pivotal to customer satisfaction now and in the future. Paluska explains this in the terms of a Planetary Gear Set. A Planetary Gear Set, which can be found commonly in automatic transmissions and even pencil sharpeners, is a very unique and powerful mechanism. It has a very synergistic design as it connects multiple gears of different forms. There is a sun gear at the center, planet gears surrounding the sun, and a ring gear holding it all together. Using this idea of a planetary gear set, Shell also sees its work with customers functioning in a similar way. “At the centre of that gear is our expertise. Our technical advisors, account managers, product application specialists and so on, out in the field working with the customer. Then gear number one is our products. For 11 years running we have been the number one global lubricant supplier. He continues ‘Gear number two is our services. Take Shell LubeAnalyst or LubeExpert which we apply to those products to make sure they’re optimized. The final gear is our projects – identifying a couple of key projects at the customer facility that is in line with their annual goals and coordinate and work on them together. The four nuggets at the centre of expertise, using products, service and projects drive the whole total cost of ownership and improved equipment reliability story.” Partnerships with his customers are, for Paluska, the enduring heart of the Shell Lubricants Expert story. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell Experts come from all different specialisms – but their approach to advising customers always brings together the best from all different areas. This is demonstrated by Praveen Nagpal, a Global Product Application Specialist. Having recently celebrated a decade with Shell, Nagpal’s experience runs the gamut from technical manager in the power sector, via marine and into product applications for power engines. Now he is focusing his energies on demonstrating growth opportunities, particularly in developing markets. “My job has never just been about technical knowledge. It’s about developing solutions…where Shell is successful is in creating customer value propositions that have a commercial focus.” Nagpal’s work in developing markets shows just how many factors he has to consider when advising clients. “The key element is ‘are we a really reliable supplier with global reach’? We need to make sure logistics are in place for supply security in markets that are mostly driven by joint ventures (JV) or macro distributors (MD).” Supply logistics may be a challenge particular to developing markets but Nagpal believes a global view of customer concerns is central to Shell’s successful client partnerships. Putting himself in customers’ shoes With a remit stretching from engine servicing procedures to reducing operating life-cycle cost and even partner revenue generation, Shell experts like Nagpal really need to understand individual client pressures. “We work together with customers to really dig down into finding their best practices, bearing in mind all the variables that impact their day-to-day operations. When it’s going well, we’re working to improve the operating life-cycle cost. When there’s a problem, we start a joint investigation. How do we help them put measures in place so it doesn’t happen again?” For those thinking that a Shell expert would parachute in, make some suggestions and leave, think again. Nagpal insists that they are on the ground and involved for as long as it takes: “If it’s only a water leak and we can figure out where it’s coming from, the investigation might only take a couple of days. On the other hand, something like a bearing failure needs a lot of exploration. It can take anything up to a month to complete.” Avoiding false economies Of course, prevention is better than cure and Nagpal states that the greatest value he can bring to a customer is his expertise in weeding out the causes of unplanned stoppages. It’s a particularly important point when it comes to the premium/economy oil price debate, and how it figures into life-cycle costing. Nagpal acknowledges that customers are hard-wired to seek out the cheapest deal. It’s his job to explain the real ‘cost’ of the oil they buy, something that might not be apparent for months or even years down the line. Nagpal has discovered that customers who work with suppliers as partners are more likely to choose premium quality oils. However, customers with a more ‘shopper’ mentality have no relationship with their provider beyond a transaction. Is this because partners just have a better sales technique? Or could there be more to it? “The primary objective of customers looking for reliable oil partners is always the operating life-cycle cost. When they go for a premium product, they’re calculating the lubricant price, the cost of spare parts and their profitability. We give them credible evidence that premium lubricant will lower their operating life-cycle cost. They clearly understand the value Shell’s expertise is delivering.” Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Raghevendran Madhavarao is a Shell Lubricants Sector Marketing Manager based in Gurgaon, India. He is one of Shell’s longest-standing sales and marketing experts with twenty years’ experience with Shell. During that time he has worked on a number of key customer accounts across both the EMEA and APAC regions. Today, his role is to help customers understand how their lubricants strategy can have a positive influence on their equipment total cost of ownership. “The general view of our lubricants customers is that it’s an industrial consumable. It is only a small part of their overall maintenance budget, constituting only 2% to 3%. As far as lubricants go, their mindshare is not very high. How the right lubricant can help reducing the other 97% of their maintenance budget is something customers aren’t generally aware of,” he says. From price to focusing on TCO Raghavendran’s role is to show that with the right lubricants strategies in place, customers can make real improvements maintenance costs. It’s not without its challenges. “It is very natural for customers to come up with a price challenge at the start. First of all, it’s their job to challenge their supplier’s price positioning because they want to get the best deal. Secondly, the market has always operated with suppliers going to customers with an explanation of how their price compares to competitors’ so the customer is encouraged to think in those terms. The opportunity lies with brands like Shell Lubricants to take the conversation a bit deeper and move the conversation from price to value.” Moving the conversation from lubricant cost to lubricant value is not an easy one but, Raghavendran insists, one that is vital for the continued operational – and financial – health of his customers. Being able to minimise the customer’s total cost of ownership so effectively is down to the extensive training and preparation Shell’s Lubricant experts put into understanding their customers’ needs. Depend on Shell heritage to stay at the cutting edge Shell Lubricants Experts like Raghavendran typically do a great deal of preparation before approaching customers. They research the sector as a whole, then break it down into segments so they can understand the nuances of individual needs. Shell’s long-standing heritage in industrial lubrication – more than 150 years - means the company and its experts have a wealth of case studies to draw on to demonstrate how their advice has played out in the past: “The records we have that point to Shell’s contribution in reducing their TCO gives a lot of credibility to what we say and also opens up the customer to sharing their own particular challenges. From that point, Shell can offer them solutions that are most appropriate to their own needs,” Raghavendran reveals. This process of information gathering and case study generation is never-ending, Raghavendran insists, because he believes neither he nor his colleagues can afford to stop making an effort: “There is no limit to adding references because increasing the volume is only going to give more confidence to the customer.” Global coverage is vital, he adds, to make sure every customer in every location finds a proof of concept they can relate to. Customers should continue questioning Customers have access to more information via digital sources than ever before which means they are able to question suppliers more deeply as to how lubricants contribute to TCO and perform a more in-depth cost analysis. Equipment manufacturers also play a role informing customers on their options. This is something Raghavendran welcomes, believing as he does that education is a powerful tool when it comes to efficiency. “The customer is getting better and more aware of what’s going on in the industry. The level of understanding does still vary across sectors but overall, it’s up to us at Shell to educate about the role lubricants play in managing TCO effectively.” Raghavendran’s advice to customers is to continue exploring, continue questioning to get the best from their lubricant and the best from their suppliers: “Challenge the status quo because there’s improvement happening in all fields, including lubricants. Be open and curious about what lubricants are doing in your machines. Engage with suppliers to find out more and understand what might be possible and finally, try it out. Even if it’s just in small areas, experimentation can open up a wealth of benefits.” Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. There is no sector on Earth today that doesn’t have to simultaneously look towards the future as well as work on the challenges of the here and now. The pace of change is relentless. This is no exception for an organization like Shell, where a fast pace of change is also the norm. Dr Robert Profilet is Shell’s Product Application Specialist for industrial products, such as hydraulics, gears and compressors. He’s been working in the industry for over 25 years. It’s his job to delve into data, test out technologies and keep track of industry developments to find out what the company can be doing to help its customers make the most of innovation. Technological challenges Technological advances are great for industry but they’re not without their challenges – for customers or for Shell: “Equipment’s getting smaller so there’s less fluid, it gets hotter, oxidiesoxidizes faster and doesn’t last as long. Manufacturers realize that fluid is as much a component of the machines as a gearset or a seal. So it’s important it’s compatible with the rest of the system. However, it’s harder to develop products to meet some of these new specifications.” Of course, this doesn’t mean that Dr Profilet and the developers at Shell aren’t prepared for what’s ahead…The company has come up with new gas to liquid base oils that help lubricants last longer and limit the number of potential issues. But this is only part of the job. One of the threads that unite all Shell Lubricants experts is their desire to maximize the health of their clients’ operations. Above all that means spotting – and stopping - problems before they occur through predictive maintenance. Importance of a data delve For a specialist like Profilet, that means delving into data. More than having the analytics though, is knowing what to do with it: “Sensors will make customers more data-focused. Today, customers get information back from whatever rapid oil analysis lab they have and it’s got a red, yellow or green check mark. Honestly, they’re not always sure what to do with that. “Going forward, sensors will allow customers to understand what their failure mode is – perhaps they’re getting water in the oil and it’s causing a bearing issue.” Profilet adds that the data benefits just keep coming, particularly for large clients with multiple sites. He advises that combining data across operations gives a valuable heads-up to issues that may be just below the surface, allowing predictive maintenance to take place. The preventative action can save customers time, money and reduce TCO on a potentially huge scale. Helping customers get on board with sensor technology doesn’t mean that Profilet is automating his way out of a job. Technology – both for customers and lubricants – is constantly evolving. He sees his role as supporting clients to meet these new challenges as well as troubleshooting issues. “A lot of it comes down to education and understanding lubricants. It can help to have a dedicated lubrication expert internally but sometimes additional help is needed. There should be someone to go to, particularly if there’s a new hire at the plant who needs guidance. Maybe that person is a Shell technical advisor. All customers need someone who is a resource of information. It helps good practices get implemented.” Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Scott Kwas is a technical advisor for Shell Lubricants based in Alberta, Canada. With history in engineering for Shell’s corporate flight department, he is uniquely positioned to understand the challenges his customers face: “I was in customers’ shoes previously and guilty of some of the habits that I’m now going in and trying to correct.” It pays to be an observer Scott’s experience is so important because understanding customers’ challenges can be a big part of the problem. There can often also be many reasons why users struggle to get the best out of their product, from education to price pressures and even warehouse organisation, and, as Kwas explains, sometimes a pair of eyes from the outside is needed to give a clear perspective. “They’re on site every day and they don’t really catch what a Shell expert or someone specifically trained in lubricants would see. By partnering with someone like Shell Lubricants we can see if a funnel is a contamination risk from being used with multiple lubricants. We know this best practice. It really is our strength.” “We get boots on the ground. We put on the hard hats and vests and look for areas of improvement,” he adds. “While we’re performing those assessments we look at elements of what could be a progressive lubrication programme. That’s down to things like storage and handling or using the product for the right application. Perhaps they can use it in a better way?” One product, so many implications It can seem strange to some customers that a lubricants expert might want to take such an interest in a whole range of processes when surely, what we’re talking about is a simple commodity? Kwas is quite clear that he needs to help customers change this mindset. That power, as Kwas calls it, is much further reaching than simply smoothing out the day to day product management. He firmly believes it is possible to make significant improvements to companies’ end profitability if they take the time to focus on the details. “In today’s economy, we’re seeing contracts for our customers being lost by pennies. They’re looking for any way that they can leverage suppliers or manage maintenance that’s going to bring savings to the bottom line. We have the potential to help our customers respond to this environment and be more competitive.” Kwas agrees that it can seem counterintuitive sometimes to begin a conversation about saving ‘pennies’ and then come in with an argument for spending more on premium oils. “A lot don’t realise the effect a poor-quality lubricant can have on systems and the life of the oil. I try to educate the customer on the benefits of using a stronger lubricant. They should be looking at the potential to extend the oil drain interval or have better system efficiency and fuel economy. That can be a saving in the region of six figures for some of my customers.” Bringing the argument to life Arguments like this struggle without some real-world proof that the promises equal reality, such as in the case of machinery maintenance. A good example is oil drain intervals – the amount of time the engine can go before it needs an oil change. “We really try to show them the savings and we work with our customers to quantify it for them. If they have an oil drain interval of 250 hours a month, we might potentially be able to double it. And if we double it, we can show them what the saving would be.” The experience and in-depth technical knowledge Shell experts bring to the table is a vital part of this conversation. Kwas understands that reassurance is essential: “We have to go to a prospect that may be new to Shell and they’re putting a lot of trust in a supplier who comes in recommending change. “Trust isn’t just that there will be more money at the end of the process. Customers also have to be sure that, whatever advice we bring, there will be no adverse effects on machinery they depend on daily to deliver their bottom line.” Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Total Cost of OwnershipWe can work with you to help your business achieve greater results, using the highest quality lubricants and expert solutions to sustain long term savings and increase equipment value. The total cost of Shell lubricants and greases. The total cost of the correct maintenance and business processes. The potential increase in costs due to improper selection of lubricants. The potential decrease in component life owing to poor maintenance. The potential increase in costs from loss of production and equipment downtime. Other variable costs related to lubrication and lubrication management such as leaks, handling/dispensing, admin, training, and others.. Good Lubrication Management Effective lubrication management is vital to unlocking potential total cost of ownership savings. It helps deliver value, from improved productivity and reductions in lubricant consumption to maintenance and operating costs. In a nutshell, better lubrication management ultimately leads to higher efficiency and less equipment downtime. These are the four essential principles: Right Storage & Handling The lubricant must be stored in the right conditions and handled correctly to avoid contamination and preserve its key characteristics. Right Place & Time For the oil or grease to reach the right surface, they must be applied at the right time and changed at the appropriate frequency. Delays may result in accelerated wear of the equipment and therefore, more costs. Right Amount & Monitoring The correct volume of oils or greases must be applied and topped up to protect moving parts effectively. Regular sampling and analysis will ensure the oils or greases remain fit for purpose and help determine any early indications of equipment performance issues. Right People The competence of those who lubricate equipment can greatly affect its positive impact, particularly when it comes to ensuring the right storage, timings, quantities and monitoring practices are in place. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Maximizing you investmentAchieve better business results and increase your equipment’s value using the highest quality lubricants and expert solutions.. Our customers’ focus is on their need for all things to be more reliable and more cost effective. Hounded by pressures to improve their practices, processes, people – and their equipment, it’s easy for them to overlook the impact of lubrication on machinery and equipment they rely on. Companies across all sectors face increasing pressures to reduce costs, and switching to lower quality, generic lubricants and greases is an often tempting but ultimately damaging choice for businesses in the long term. When taking a holistic view of the total cost of equipment ownership, good lubrication and proper lubrication management save businesses money in the long term. Shell’s expertise in lubrication is demonstrated through reducing the total cost of ownership of vehicles and machinery. This holistic view requires an intelligent and specific understanding of every customer’s business, operations, plants and people. Shell’s consultants are trained sector specialists who work to analyse and optimise the impact of lubrication with proven, long term results in reducing cost. There are two core elements to this; the first is making sure every piece of equipment is using the right lubricant, but the second is managing lubrication in the most effective way possible. Managing lubrication involves empowering customers with the right training, maintenance solutions and lubrication handling and analysis. The savings that companies have achieved through effective lubrication with Shell are compelling; these savings come from a variety of critical areas for businesses: from simply increasing oil change intervals to helping prevent significant disruption from unplanned equipment downtime. Across all sectors, Shell has a proven record of reducing the total cost of ownership through quality lubricants and expert lubrication management. What the future holds: innovating to meet the challenges of today and tomorrow The world is changing at an overwhelming speed. It has never been more pressing for businesses to respond and adapt so quickly. This presents unique challenges and great opportunities for the technical specialists at Shell Lubricants. We work to evolve and expand our product range so that it can continue to meet the diverse requirements for our wide customer base. Increased automation At the very simplest, sectors like mining, general manufacturing and agriculture are adopting more sophisticated, automated machinery capable of working over longer periods and under conditions requiring less manpower. This grows the demand for innovative, highly dependable lubricants, which can withstand prolonged working conditions with less frequent human management. The mining sector has an additional requirement for lubricant solutions that can remain effective and stable under extreme temperatures, as businesses adopt larger vehicles carrying far greater loads. Cleaner running The power and fleet sectors are developing more complex lubrication requirements, as cleaner, renewable and alternative fuels are in greater demand. Radically different equipment is required to convert to such fuels; this calls for a more nuanced portfolio of specialist lubricants. These must be applied and managed differently to maintain – if not exceed – these companies’ current operational expectations and financial requirements. Similar issues are found in the construction sector: as bigger companies tend to undertake larger, more complex projects that were once divided between specialist disciplines. This means that modern construction companies must employ a wider range of equipment types. These all need different lubrication solutions that are not only effective but specialised to maximise each equipment type’s value and longevity. Lubricant performance management Our technical specialists are already introducing our customers to technology that enables the real time monitoring of lubricant performance. This allows you to measure lubricant performance levels for individual vehicles and items of equipment, allowing you to refine and optimise your lubrication solutions. Businesses across every sector are taking advantage of this capability to optimise their performance for today’s fiercely competitive markets. What lies ahead These factors, and doubtless many new ones, will continue to grow in significance as time goes on. We will continue to stay at the forefront of innovation in lubricants, always working with you to find new solutions to support your business. Lubricants for Fleet Improve your fuel economy, lower your emissions, and reduce operating costs thanks to our efficient lubrication procedures. Lubricants for General Manufacturing Our lubricants for manufacturing are designed to help enhance the productivity and efficiency of your operations. Find out more. Shell turns uncertainty into knowledge, complexity into simplicity, and difficulty into opportunity With orders to deliver, deadlines to meet and reputation to uphold, unplanned downtime is not an option. It may not be possible to eliminate problems entirely, but it is possible to see them coming and take preventative action. The end result is the same – avoiding lost productivity. At Shell, we help you make more informed decisions with greater certainty. We are an end-to-end solutions provider with a suite of services and tools for your business, from oil analysis, to expert advice delivered on-site and virtually, to training programmes. Whether it is keeping your operation in motion, optimising your lubrication programme more quickly, reskilling and upskilling your people, or capitalising on change – we can maximize profits while minimizing negative impacts. Shell Lubricant Solutions is an expert partner that expands your team, empowers your operations and helps you conquer complexity to take advantage of the opportunities ahead. Oil Condition Monitoring LubeAnalyst uses an oil condition monitoring programme to give your machinery a regular health checkup. On-site Support LubeExperts offer on-site customer support, helping to resolve problems and optimise lubrication. On-site Reliability Service Providers LubeOptimiser is an end-to-end solution designed to help companies address common challenges during the lifetime of machinery oil. Equipment Inspection LubeVideoCheck is a fibre-optic imaging tool that enables internal equipment components to be inspected in a non-invasive way. Virtual Assistant LubeChat offers instant access to technical advice through your smartphone, laptop or desktop. Digital Equipment Management MachineMax is a digital equipment management platform designed to help maximise utilisation and profitability of your off-highway fleet. Mining Industry Marketplace Oren is the first B2B Marketplace for the Mining Sector, offering solutions, software, and services across the end-to-end value chain. Technical Advisors LubeAdvisors provide technical expertise across the globe, on-site, online and over the phone Real-time condition monitoring Remote Sense uses advanced analytics and sensors to deliver real-time oil condition insights. Training Programme LubeCoach provides training in early warning recognition and effective lubricant usage, delivered by technical experts. Solutions Hub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. SOLUTIONS HUB Preventing Equipment Failure Helping your teams protect equipment and preserve asset integrity. Maximising your Output A sophisticated suite of proactive maintenance and training services. Trusted Expertise Filling the maintenance knowledge gap to drive profitability. Lubricant Services Innovation Combining optimised lubrication with Industry 4.0 intelligence. Shell LubeAnalyst: Less Downtime, More Go TimeYou’ve chosen your oil, your equipment is lubricated and business is running smoothly. But are you set up for long-term success? Will you be alerted in time if an issue is around the corner? Whether you work on- or off-highway, in the power industry, or general manufacturing, preventative maintenance can help unlock savings and cut unplanned downtime. Oil condition monitoring is an essential part of this. Continually monitoring the condition of oil inside your equipment can provide an early-warning of impending failures empowering you to stop potential failures in their tracks. It can also help determine appropriate oil-drain intervals, and help extend equipment life. Beyond Data Our oil condition monitoring service gives you access to Shell industry experts that use equipment and lubricant insights to provide preventative maintenance recommendations. Let the operational and engineering experience of our technical experts help you have more go time. Equipment-based diagnosis and insights based on more than 30 years of Shell expertise. Strong support from Shell experts to help make preventive maintenance recommendations and keep your equipment running. An easy-to-use digital platform providing an up-to-date overview of lubricant performance in your equipment on one dashboard and a mobile app. Our comprehensive oil condition monitoring portfolio enables you to choose an oil service that meets your needs: Shell LubeAnalyst Test Kits Rapid, high-detail laboratory oil analysis covering 100+ different test options, including specialised turbine and varnish tests. Shell Remote Sense An OCM sensor, providing real-time insights with no human action required to take your oil samples, for parts that cannot be easily reached or present a safety hazard. Existing LubeAnalyst Customers Access your information here. Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Application Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you achieve efficient and reliable operations. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your machine provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. Heavy-Duty Diesel Engine Test Kits Transmissions, Axel and Differential Test Kits Hydraulics Test Kits Turbine Test Kits Stationary or Power Diesel Engine Test Kits Gas Engine Test Kits Compressor Test Kits Industrial Hydraulics Test Kits Bearing and Circulating Test Kits Gearbox and Couplings Test Kits Bearing and Circulating Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you uncover potential failures before they result in breakdown. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your Bearing and Circulating Systems provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Traffic light check for oil condition (pass/fail) ✓ ✓ ✓ Supports filtration scheduling through understanding of oil cleanliness ✓ ✓ Provides increased confidence to extend ODI ✓ ✓ Demulsability to indicate oxidation and varnish formation ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Refrigeration Compressor Gas Fridge Compressor (PAG) Refrigeration Compressor (Ammonia) Heat Transfer and Seal Systems Electrical and Transformer oils Fire Resistant Hydraulic Fluids Grease Lubricated Bearings Industrial Gears (PAG) Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Compressors Gearbox and Couplings Industrial Hydraulics Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Compressor Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you achieve efficient and reliable manufacturing operations. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your Compressors provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Traffic light check for compressor oil condition (pass/fail) ✓ ✓ ✓ Measures viscosity to indicate oil life ✓ ✓ ✓ Supports filtration scheduling through understanding of oil cleanliness ✓ ✓ Provides increased confidence to extend ODI ✓ ✓ Deeper insight into engine health, contamination, oxidation and nitration ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Refrigeration Compressor Gas Fridge Compressor (PAG) Refrigeration Compressor (Ammonia) Heat Transfer and Seal Systems Electrical and Transformer Oils Fire Resistant Hydraulic Fluids Grease Lubricated Bearings Industrial Gears Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Bearing and Circulating Systems Industrial Hydraulics Gearbox and Couplings Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Gas Engine Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you achieve peak performance from your power operations. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your gas engine provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Fuel consumption ✓ ✓ ✓ Internal and external contamination ✓ ✓ ✓ Oil cleanliness ✓ ✓ ✓ Understanding of protection level's impact on equipment reliability ✓ ✓ ✓ Oil life estimates for confident ODI extension ✓ ✓ ✓ Enhanced understanding of oil degradation and remaining oil life to improve maintenance planning ✓ ✓ Contamination from water or another lubricant ✓ Additional insights into engine health and cleanliness ✓ Remaining oil life ✓ Oil oxidation and metal corrosion levels ✓ Monitoring of corrosive acids which may enter the oil during gas engine operations ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Turbine Oil (Monthly, 3 month, 6 month, or 12 month options) Turbine Control Fluids Turbine Aero Derivatives Turbo Compressors Gas Engine (DIN) Gas Engine Landfill Wind Turbine Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Stationary or Power Diesel Engines Turbines Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Gearbox and Couplings Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you unlock the potential of your manufacturing operations. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your Gearbox and Couplings provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Traffic light check for oil condition (pass/fail) ✓ ✓ ✓ Understanding of component wear ✓ ✓ ✓ Measures viscosity to indicate oil life ✓ ✓ ✓ Supports filtration scheduling through understanding of oil cleanliness ✓ ✓ Provides increased confidence to extend ODI ✓ ✓ Enhanced equipment protection by detecting larger particles ✓ ✓ Demulsability to indicate oxidation and varnish information ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Refrigeration Compressor Gas Fridge Compressor (PAG) Refrigeration Compressor (Ammonia) Heat Transfer and Seal Systems Electrical and Transformer Oils Fire Resistant Hydraulic Fluid Grease Lubricated Bearings Industrial Gears Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Compressors Industrial Hydraulics Bearing and Circulating Systems Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Heavy-Duty Diesel Engine Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you unlock the potential of your vehicles or equipment. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your heavy-duty diesel engines provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Common failure modes ✓ ✓ ✓ Wear and contaminants levels ✓ ✓ ✓ Water contamination ✓ ✓ ✓ Understanding if the lubricant viscosity is within specification at 100°C ✓ ✓ ✓ Potential for ODI extension and supporting engine maintenance planning ✓ ✓ Oxidation and nitration to indicate oil life and condition ✓ ✓ Assessment of engine health and contamination ✓ ✓ Assessment of remaining oil performances reserve ✓ ✓ Assessment of remaining oil performance reserve, for use with specific OEM requirements ✓ Enhanced protection through detecting larger particles ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Coolant Systems Diesel Fuel Grease Lubricated Bearings Industrial Gears (PAG) Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Transmission, Axels and Differentials Hydraulics Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Industrial Hydraulics Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you unlock the potential of your equipment. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your hydraulic systems provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Traffic light check for hydraulic oil condition (pass/fail) ✓ ✓ ✓ Helps to manage precision hydraulics ✓ ✓ ✓ Assessment of water and other contamination ✓ ✓ ✓ Measures viscosity to indicate oil life via oxidation, energy use, and protection of equipment ✓ ✓ ✓ Increased confidence to extend ODI ✓ ✓ Supports filtration scheduling through understanding of oil cleanliness ✓ ✓ Colour test to measure contamination ✓ Indication of the need for hydraulic flushing ✓ Indication of whether varnish formation and oil health are damaging the hydraulic system ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Refrigeration Compressor Gas Fridge Compressor (PAG) Refrigeration Compressor (Ammonia) Heat Transfer and Seal Systems Electrical and Transformer oils Fire Resistant Hydraulic Fluids Grease Lubricated Bearings Industrial Gears (PAG) Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Compressors Gearbox and Couplings Bearing and Circulating Systems Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Transmissions, Axel and Differential Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you extend equipment life and avoid unexpected breakdowns. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your transmission, axels and differentials provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Common failure modes ✓ ✓ ✓ Wear and contaminants levels ✓ ✓ ✓ Water contamination ✓ ✓ ✓ Understanding protection of gears via viscosity control ✓ ✓ ✓ Understanding if the lubricant viscosity is within specification at 100 °C ✓ ✓ ✓ Visual indication of degradation and cleanliness ✓ ✓ ✓ Major equipment wear detection to provide an early warning of gear misalignment that could lead to catastrophic failure ✓ ✓ Enhanced protection through detecting larger particles ✓ ✓ Assessment of oil degradation for increased confidence to extend ODI ✓ ✓ Particle count to assess oil cleanliness ✓ Viscosity loss through shear loss in multi-grade oils to help identify if top up with a lubricant of a different viscosity has occurred ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Coolant Systems Diesel Fuel Grease Lubricated Bearings Industrial Gears (PAG) Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Heavy-Duty Diesel Engines Hydraulics Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Stationary or Power Diesel Engine Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you achieve peak performance from your power operations. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your engine provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Fuel Consumption ✓ ✓ ✓ Internal and external contamination ✓ ✓ ✓ Oil cleanliness ✓ ✓ ✓ Understanding of protection level's impact on equipment reliability ✓ ✓ ✓ Engine maintenance planning optimisation ✓ ✓ Engine health check into contamination, oxidation, nitration and cleanliness ✓ ✓ Oil life estimates for confident ODI extension ✓ ✓ Understanding of protection level's impact on equipment reliability ✓ ✓ Enhanced understanding of oil degradation and remaining oil life to improve maintenance planning ✓ Engine health and cleanliness assessment ✓ Injectors, pump timing and leaks assessment ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Turbine Oil (Monthly, 3 month, 6 month, or 12 month options) Turbine Control Fluids Turbine Aero Derivatives Turbo Compressors Gas Engine (DIN) Gas Engine Landfill Wind Turbine Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Gas Engines Turbines Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Turbine Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you achieve peak performance from your power operations. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your turbine provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Basic understanding of turbine oil condition ✓ ✓ ✓ Understanding of oil cleanliness to supporting filtration scheduling ✓ ✓ Contamination from water or another lubricant ✓ Additive depletion in the oil, contamination from foreign fluids and metal wear ✓ Monitoring of oil cleanliness to help extend filter and bearing life ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Turbine Oil (Monthly, 3 month, 6 month, or 12 month options) Turbine Control Fluids Turbine Aero Derivatives Turbo Compressors Gas Engine (DIN) Gas Engine Landfill Wind Turbine Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Gas Engines Stationary or Power Diesel Engines Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below Hydraulics Test KitsUsing Shell LubeAnalyst test kits can help you unlock the potential of your equipment. Monitoring the condition of the lubricant in your hydraulic systems provides detailed equipment health insights, used by Shell industry experts to generate preventative maintenance recommendations. With a range of kits available, you can choose the level of information you require. INSIGHT STANDARD TEST KIT PLUS TEST KIT PREMIUM TEST KIT Common failure modes ✓ ✓ ✓ Wear and contaminants levels ✓ ✓ ✓ Water contamination ✓ ✓ ✓ Understanding if the lubricant viscosity is within specification at 40°C ✓ ✓ ✓ Enhanced understanding of oil cleanliness from quantifying contamination size to support filtration strategy ✓ ✓ Assessment of oil cleanliness, which is important for precision components with tight tolerances and indicates the quality of rubber seals ✓ ✓ Indication of whether the fluid has sheared, which affect the lubricant temperature performance and ability to protect against wear ✓ ✓ Assessment of oil degradation to understand remaining oil life ✓ Enhanced protection through detecting larger particles ✓ For more in-depth insights and a wider range of specialist analysis, additional Premium Test Kits are available for other applications in your industry. A selection is provided below or to view the full range of available tests download the guide below. Coolant Systems Diesel Fuel Grease Lubricated Bearings Industrial Gears (PAG) Download the Premium Test Kit guide Identify recurrent issues and review actions based on sampling to optimise your equipment performance. Access to Shell experts can help you to: Choose the right test kit Set up optimum oil-test scheduling Provide coaching and training to optimize your equipment Contact our Experts Other Test Kits Heavy-Duty Diesel Engines Transmission, Axels and Differentials Get in touch with an expert Fill out the form below LubeExpert: On-site oil expertise to improve your bottom lineBoost productivity and lower total cost of ownershipFor over 20 years our experts have supported mining companies around the world in identifying issues and solving problems to minimize down time and optimize productivity. Including a Shell lube expert in your team will help you realize your short- and long-term goals, reducing the total cost of ownership and improve your bottom line. Insights and innovations from around the globe Shell lube experts have a wealth of mining and engineering expertise gained from decades of working with the leading mining companies in the world. This allows us to leverage the insights and knowledge to find the best solution to fit your unique business needs. Site surveys have identified up to 30% savings on total maintenance budget related to lubricants.¹ From 2011 to 2016, mining customers reported value of more than us$55 million related to our products and services.² Long-standing relationships with 11 of the top 12 mining companies. In 20+ years of operation, our lube experts have never had a lost-time incident. Potential impact calculated based on Shell Lubricants site surveys with mining customers. Based on savings delivered to Shell Lubricants mining customers from 2011 to 2016. Maximize the impact of lubricants Leveraging a comprehensive toolkit of services, our experts help you anticipate and avoid issues. We work together with your team to inspect, audit and optimise equipment, systems and processes according to the highest industry standards while leveraging the latest and most innovative technology available. Dedicated to meet your needs Shell LubeExperts Integrate with your maintenance teams Work on machines and mills Bring mining and engineering expertise Provide insight and innovative technology from around the world Inspect using strobe-o-scope, thermal imaging and vibration analysis Audit lubrication systems and injectors Perform injector spectrum sleeve fitment Optimise grease onto fixed and mobile equipment Committed to the long-term Our commitment doesn’t end with solving your challenges today, we’re dedicated to assisting your operations become more sustainable for the long-term. We launched the service over twenty years ago and still work with our first customer. At the same time, we’ve developed long-standing relationships with 10 of the top 12 mining companies around the world. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Oil Selector LubeMatch is an online tool that matches the right oil to your vehicle or machinery. LubeAdvisor: Give your equipment the support it requiresUsing the right oil can significantly improve your operationsShell Lube Advisors help you use the right Shell oil, at the right time, every time. By helping you on-site to improve the lubrication and maintenance practice of your equipment and vehicles, significant benefits can be achieved, increasing productivity, limiting downtime, and providing you with a competitive advantage. Our experience delivering you real value Delivering value and improvement to your business requires much more than just the best products alone. At Shell, we believe that implementation of lubrication best practice supported by a team of world class professional technical support staff is vital to achieving major cost savings and improvements in your business. How Shell LubeAdvisor adds value to you and your business The Shell LubeAdvisor service is delivered through highly trained Shell technical staff consisting of office-based technical helpdesks and field-based lubrication engineers. In addition, there are a number of helpful and convenient tools for you to use, with the complete Shell LubeAdvisor service offering you a wealth of engineering, technical and application knowledge. Trained technical support On-site or over the phone, Shell technical representatives are on hand to help solve your lubrication-related problems and answer your lubrication and product questions. Detailed plant assessment Our field-based engineers are there to help you identify areas for improvement and potential cost savings by improving lubrication and maintenance practices. Lubrication surveys With our field-based engineers on-site we can help identify your lubrication requirements, the products needed and recommended maintenance intervals. Shell LubeAdvisor benefits at a glance Employing the correct lubrication is essential for your operation to run smoothly and to prevent expensive unplanned downtime due to equipment failure. Our Shell technical staff help you to: Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Oil Selector LubeMatch is an online tool that matches the right oil to your vehicle or machinery. Shell LubeVideoCheckShell LubeVideoCheck is a fibre-optic imaging tool that enables you to inspect internal equipment components in a non-invasive way. This makes it easy to assess a machine’s condition, identify any problems and diagnose the necessary solutions, all before any costly damage has occurred. How does it work? Delivered by highly trained Shell LubeVideoCheck experts Using high-tech fibre-optic imaging equipment To inspect your equipment and provide tailored reports detailing recommended action. Why choose Shell LubeVideoCheck? Quick and easy identification of potential damage, enabling intervention before breakdown occurs. Significant reduction in downtime, keeping your vehicles and equipment working. Reduced maintenance costs including man-hours and replacement parts. 1. Your Shell representative reviews your requirements and schedules a convenient time for the Shell LubeVideoCheck inspection. 2. A trained Shell LubeVideoCheck expert inspects your equipment components 3. Video images are recorded and interpreted by the Shell LubeVideoCheck expert. 4. Your custom-made report is prepared, highlighting any problems, their causes and the recommended solution. 5. Your recommendations are explained, enabling you to take the required action. Discover the full range of services from Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. LubeCoach: Expert Oil Training ProgrammesEmpower your staffOptimizing the application of lubrication in your operations can play a decisive role in minimizing down time and maximizing productivity, translating directly to your bottom line. Through Shell LubeCoach your staff gets access to our high-quality training materials to optimize the utilization of lubricants to assure the successful day-to-day operation of your facility. Trainings to help you deliver optimal performance Delivered through our technical experts who hold extensive experience around the globe, we offer valuable knowledge on best-practice techniques to realize the full potential of lubrication for your operations. Through courses and workshops they will gain the knowledge needed to make informed decisions needed for a fully optimised lubrication plan, resulting in longer equipment or component life. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. LubeAdvisor – expert support Explore our technical expertise across the globe, on-site, online and over the phone. Shell LubeChatOur new online chat tool gives you answers to questions about oils and lubes. Answers on Demand LubeChat brings you a vast array of Shell knowledge, equipping you to make faster, better-informed decisions that can ultimately help bring down your total cost of ownership. It's easy-to-use It works on your smartphone and your computer It's available 24/7 Key features Find products that are right for your equipment Access technical and safety sheets on Shell products Get the recommended Shell alternative if you have an issue with your current product Access case studies demonstrating how existing customers have improved their operations Shortcuts to popular questions There are thousands of other questions LubeChat can answer. Here’s just a small sample of them. What's the physical characteristics for ...? What lube meets this specification? How do I test for...? What's Shell's range of hydraulic oils called? What's the glossary definition of...? To access LubeChat please click on the following links: Australia China Germany India Indonesia Ireland Malaysia Philippines Russia Singapore United Kingdom USA If you are not located in any of the countries on the list, please check back soon for updated information on upcoming country launches. LubeAdvisor: Give your equipment the support it requires Explore our technical expertise across the globe, on-site, online and over the phone. Shell LubeAnalyst: Less Downtime, More Go Time Reduce downtime and achieve more go-time, with detailed equipment-based insights from Shell industry experts. Solutions HubWith many different lubricants, greases, and oils available at your fingertips, it can often be difficult to choose the right product for your operation. To ensure you get the most out of your equipment, we’ve created Solutions Hub: the one stop shop for all lubricant expertise.From technical training to facilitating on-site support, we’ve centralised our lubricant services into one helpful destination to make your life much easier. Oil Selector Our Oil Selector helps you find the right oil for your machine or vehicle. It covers over 140,000 equipment manufacturers’ makes and models, and provides access to technical and safety data sheets to guide lubricant use. Product Catalogue Discover how using the right lubricant can bring substantial savings by maximising equipment efficiency, prolonging vehicle life, and significantly reducing downtime. Technical Training Our team of experts offers training and workshops to share best-practice lubrication procedures with your staff, ensuring you get outstanding results from your equipment. Get access to our training video library now. Oil Analysis Our Oil Analysis service and global team of sector-specialists, gives you access to our technical experts, individual consulting, troubleshooting, and research into your operation to maintain your competitive edge. LubeChat Ask our virtual assistant for technical advice about oils and greases. Find out more about Lubricants Services Get in touch with an expert in your market Sector Expertise Discover Shell’s expertise in providing our customers the right products and the right advice across various sectors. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Our Experts Keep your equipment running smoothly with technical advice, smart new applications and insightful lubricant analysis Shell Remote Sense – Live oil condition monitoringShell Remote Sense is an online oil condition monitoring service that uses sensor data and advanced analytics to deliver actionable insights about the condition of your oil. The insights are delivered in real-time via the Shell Remote Sense website and email alerts, and can be integrated with existing monitoring and telemetry systems via API connections. Shell Remote Sense improves upon traditional lab-based oil analysis in that the oil is continuously monitored, allowing you to catch potential problems before they cause damage to your equipment. Industry 4.0 is the new normal. Our customers use Shell Remote Sense to expand their Industrial Internet of Things (Industrial IoT) footprint. Real time oil condition monitoring Shell Remote Sense can give you access to the live state of your oil, round the clock Actionable insights and recommendations With targeted insights such as Remaining Oil Life, Shell Remote Sense delivers recommendations faster than lab-based oil analysis. Shell Remote Sense can help you: Reduce Unplanned Downtime By delivering actionable insights and recommendations, we can help you to respond quicker to anomalies before failure occurs, reducing unplanned downtime. Optimise Maintenance In monitoring your oil condition, we can obtain a view of the health of your asset, which will help you to prioritise which assets need attention. Extend Equipment Life Once we have a view of the health of your equipment, we can provide recommendations to help you improve that health, meaning each equipment can run for longer before it needs replacing. Improve Utilisation and Increase Productivity Shell Remote Sense helps you move away from time-based maintenance to condition-based maintenance, which can improve utilisation and increase productivity. Continuous engine oil monitoring Real-time oil condition monitoring for landfill engines Discover the full range of services from Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. Continuous engine oil monitoring Shell Remote Sense real-time oil analysis service can be deployed to heavy duty engines that run a variety of fuels – diesel, heavy fuel oil, landfill gas, natural gas. Shell Remote Sense complements existing condition-monitoring techniques such as vibration analysis, pressure-time (P-T) curves, and lab-based oil analysis. Shell Remote Sense Tracks key metrics like TBN, TAN and oxidation, and creates real-time alerts when limits are reached. Can detect fuel dilution and water contamination, allowing you to take corrective action before damage occurs. Can work with any brand of engine, and any brand of oil, regardless of manufacturer. Shell Remote Sense can be installed on engines, regardless of whether an existing telematics system is used. For installation guides, please email us. Shell Remote Sense for landfill engines Learn how Shell Remote Sense can help solve challenges seen in engines at landfills, such as high silicon contamination. Shell Remote Sense Overview Visit the homepage to get an overview of the Shell Remote Sense online oil monitoring service. Discover the full range of services from Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. Real-time oil condition monitoring for landfill engines Constantly varying gas streams at landfills, with contaminants like siloxanes, takes a heavy toll on the engines generating electricity on site. It can be difficult to know when too much contaminants have entered the engine. Shell Remote Sense monitors the oil in landfill engines with key insights such as: TBN – acids from combustion of landfill gases takes a toll on the reserve alkalinity of the lubricating system. By monitoring TBN you will have a better idea if the oil is suitable for continued use, or if an oil change is recommended. Silicon – siloxanes in the landfill gas stream turn into solid silica deposits, which lead to increased abrasive wear. Shell Remote Sense can monitor the silicon level in the oil so that you know when silicon build-up is reaching critical levels. Viscosity – radical changes in engine oil viscosity can indicate combustion issues, or be an indicator that the wrong type of lubricant was topped-off in the sump. Viscosity issues should be corrected immediately in order to avoid damage to the engine. Water contamination – Shell Remote Sense can give an indication of when contaminants like water have infiltrated the engine. Shell Remote Sense can be installed on engines with extremely sour gas streams. Remote Sense works on inline and V-shaped cylinder configurations. For help with your particular engine model, please email us. Shell Remote Sense Overview Visit the homepage to learn how Shell Remote Sense monitors the health of your equipment in real time. Shell Remote Sense Customer Portal Are you already a Shell Remote Sense user? View your data live by logging into the customer portal. Choosing the right engine oil Shell Remote Sense can work with any brand of engine oil, regardless of manufacturer. For Shell’s offering of landfill gas engine oils, please visit the Shell Mysella page. Discover the full range of services from Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. Contact our Lubricants Services ExpertsFor more information on our Lubricants services, products and solutions, get in touch with one of our experts. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. LubeOptimiserShell LubeOptimiser is an end-to-end solution designed to help companies address common challenges, such as simplifying operations, reducing downtime, and protecting equipment. Together with our network of on-site reliability service providers, we help companies with: Maintenance support and troubleshooting activities during the lifetime of your machinery oil Expertise to identify areas of improvement to help avoid unexpected disruptions and increase uptime This can help tackle issues such as: Loss of Productivity Contamination is a leading cause of equipment breakdown, which in turn leads to enormous productivity losses. Lack of Manpower Effective lubrication management is challenging when companies face a lack of field expertise, tools and processes. We can help. Missed Opportunities Supplier complexity can create unnecessary inefficiencies and lost opportunities. Shell LubeOptimiser is your one-stop-shop. FILTRATION As oil is being filled into the equipment or during the life of the equipment, to maintain low particle count. HIGH VELOCITY OIL FLUSHING Cleans the circulating oil system using high flow turbulence, to maintain productivity and protect your equipment. DEHYDRATION Removing water from lubricant while in service via centrifuge or vacuum dehydration. Emergency response and particulate removal available. INITIAL FILL SERVICES Filtration of oil to new installations. Can include high velocity oil flushing, flushing of lines and pickling. RECLAMATION Reclamation of system oil recovered from leakage, on-site or offsite. CLEANING Confined space tank cleaning of fluid system reservoirs and bulk tanks with OSHA CSE trained personnel. VARNISH REMOVAL OR MITIGATION To reduce varnish potential of lubricant and/or remove varnish from oil-welted components within an oil circulating system. Additional Services include: Equipment Sale / Lease: Provision of equipment required for filtration, dehydration, oil reclamation or fluid storage and handling projects. Chemical Cleaning: Performed on lube oil and non-lube oil systems to remove scale, rust, and/or other system contamination. Hydroblasting: Utilises extremely high water or oil pressures to blast contamination and deposits from internal surfaces of piping. Oil Mist System: Provides an efficient & centralised lubrication system using compressed air to automatically and continuously deliver the right amount of clean lubricant to anti-friction bearings. Oil System Preventative Maintenance: Manual cleaning of oil reservoir internal surfaces, as well as purifying the existing charge of oil. Discover the full range of services from Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. MachineMaxMaximise Productivity and Profitability of your Off-Highway Fleet. Designed to help optimise operations today for a stronger outlook tomorrow MachineMax is a digital equipment management platform for off-highway fleets. Using any available existing data source or smart sensors when required, together with next-generation analytics, it helps companies maximise the utilisation and profitability of their off-highway vehicles. Designed to help optimise operations today for a stronger outlook tomorrow, MachineMax enables equipment operators to track an entire fleet of owned, rented, and contracted machinery – regardless of OEM, model, ownership or location. Data is collected from vehicles and communicated real-time to operators, to help: Increase site productivity by optimising the size and composition of the fleet and removing bottlenecks. Reduce costs and engine emissions by increasing utilisation of machines and reducing engine idle times. Proactively manage repair and maintenance by automating the optimisation of servicing schedules. In this way, MachineMax delivers: Increased profitability, by improving productivity and utilisation of equipment and staff. Reduced environmental impact, by lowering emissions and minimising idling times. One dashboard that integrates all existing telematics data (e.g. from existing OEM telemetry systems). Accessible on mobile device, PC or integrated into your existing dashboards. Quick and easy installation (less than a minute) of non-invasive, wireless sensor for machinery with no telematics. Easily track all rented machinery as soon as they arrive on site. Own all data collected. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Learn more about MachineMax Visit the MachineMax website to learn more about this telematics solution for off-highway fleet. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. Oren – The first B2B Marketplace for the Mining SectorShell and IBM have combined strengths to create the first B2B marketplace for the mining sector. Designed with ease-of-use in mind, OREN makes the daunting task of digital transformation accessible to all businesses. It offers a one-stop-shop of solutions, services and bespoke integrated solutions for application across the entire mine-to-market value chain. Oren connects industry leaders with the world’s most innovative solutions from trusted companies and solution providers. Designed to help mining companies address their significant pain points, Oren provides a Digital Development Workshop that identifies a company’s key challenges and priorities for investing in digital solutions, then offers insights and digital solutions. 80% Industrial customers report difficulty in aggregating data to make actionable insights. Source: Shell study $190 billion Potential benefit for the mining sector and $130 billion for the metals sector through digitalisation. Source: World Economic Forum (2017) 610 million tonnes of CO2 Potential reduction in emissions resulting from digitisation of mining and metals industry. Source: World Economic Forum (2017) Proven solutions Field-proven solutions and easy access to software, services, and digital solutions from the world’s most innovative companies. Efficient processes Oren quickly connects forward-thinking customers with solution providers and industrial technology leaders. Going digital Oren can help embed intelligent workflows to improve process automation. This can help companies predict and prevent machine failure, improve efficiency, reduce costs, and meet sustainability goals. Partnership creation Oren marketplace forges new industry co-selling and ecosystem partnerships and the ability to co-create next-gen solutions. Solutions for industry leaders Find right solutions faster Digital solution listings from IBM, Shell, and third-party vendors. Find cutting-edge technology, plus established and reliable solutions in one place. Oren listed solutions address customer needs in operations, sustainability, safety, production, and beyond. Seamless quotes and procurement of digital solutions Access a global supply of solutions that have been pre-qualified and vetted to ensure seamless procurement and sourcing of digital products and services. Digital Development Workshop Service This service offers mining companies a tailored expert appraisal of the digital transformation opportunities for their business. The service helps identify a company’s key challenges and its priorities for investing in digital solutions, then matches these priorities with the best solution providers in the mining industry. Digital Maturity Assessment Your digital transformation begins with an assessment of where your business currently stands. Try our two-step, 5 mins self-assessment tool to get: a benchmark of your digital maturity score; number of field proven solutions that can help address your pain points; and expert advice from an OREN mining expert to discuss the Top 3 recommendations for identified issues. Supporting solutions providers Data-driven understanding of customer needs Sellers will gain insights into what resonates with platform users, to help drive product improvement and innovation. They can also view data and analytics about interested companies and have visibility of a buyer pipeline for solutions. Coming soon. Show your solution to industry leaders Interact with customers and transact faster, by creating a comprehensive and detailed solutions page. Expand your reach to global markets and achieve efficiencies in the quote-to-order process. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Learn more about Oren Visit the Oren web portal to see how it can help your business progress. Continuous engine oil monitoring Shell Remote Sense real-time oil analysis service can be deployed to heavy duty engines that run a variety of fuels – diesel, heavy fuel oil, landfill gas, natural gas. Shell Remote Sense complements existing condition-monitoring techniques such as vibration analysis, pressure-time (P-T) curves, and lab-based oil analysis. Shell Remote Sense Tracks key metrics like TBN, TAN and oxidation, and creates real-time alerts when limits are reached. Can detect fuel dilution and water contamination, allowing you to take corrective action before damage occurs. Can work with any brand of engine, and any brand of oil, regardless of manufacturer. Shell Remote Sense can be installed on engines, regardless of whether an existing telematics system is used. For installation guides, please email us. Shell Remote Sense for landfill engines Learn how Shell Remote Sense can help solve challenges seen in engines at landfills, such as high silicon contamination. Shell Remote Sense for pipeline compressor stations Natural gas pipeline operators turn to Remote Sense for online lubricant monitoring at manned and unmanned stations. Shell Remote Sense Overview Visit the homepage to get an overview of the Shell Remote Sense online oil monitoring service. Discover the full range of services from Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. Shell Lubricant Management ProgramAn End to end lubricant management program, which lets you focus on your core business while reducing cost and optimizing operations. Comprehensive lubricant supply and inventory management Per unit production costing model and cost optimisation Dedicated on-site expert team support for smooth operations Expensive equipment monitoring, reducing equipment failures Risk assessment audits and value improvement projects Oil Analysis Oil condition monitoring programme Virtual Assistant - LubeChat Instant lubricant advice on your PC or smartphone Training Program High quality training courses delivered by technical expert Oil Selector Online tool that matches your equipment to the right lubricant Technical advisors Technical expertise 24/7, across the globe, onsite, online and over the phone Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Contact us To find out more about how we can help you with your Total Cost of Ownership, download our industry specific whitepapers now. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell Lubricant SolutionsWe are always here for you, in every little way; Find out more on how we can support the industry sectors. Shell LubeChat A 24/7 chatbot that gives you answers to questions about oils and greases. You can: Find the right products for your equipment Access technical and safety data sheets on Shell products Get the recommended Shell alternative if you have an issue with your current product Access case studies demonstrating how existing customers have improved their operations This online chat can help you to make faster and better-informed decisions. Let’s chat Click onto the “Shell LubeChat” tab at the bottom right of your screen Shell LubeCoach Optimizing the application of lubrication in your operations have never been more important. You and your staff may need the right training, and you can now do this virtually with Shell. Through the online training with Shell LubeCoach, you can benefit from: Access high-quality training materials to facilitate the successful day-to-day operation of your facility. Tailored learning. The course content is modular and specifically designed to suit your needs and those of your staff. Delivered by technical experts with substantial field based experience These courses are offering immensely practical insight in to best practice techniques, distilled from know-how gained across the Shell global network. I am interested Shell LubeAdvisor Shell Lube Advisors help you use the right Shell oil, at the right time, every time. By helping you on-site to improve the lubrication and maintenance practice of your equipment and vehicles, significant benefits can be achieved, increasing productivity, limiting downtime, and providing you with a competitive advantage. How Shell LubeAdvisor adds value to you and your business? The Shell LubeAdvisor service is delivered through highly trained Shell technical staff consisting of office-based technical helpdesks and field-based lubrication engineers. In addition, there are a number of helpful and convenient tools for you to use, with the complete Shell LubeAdvisor service offering you a wealth of engineering, technical and application knowledge. Find out more Shell LubeAnalyst: Less Downtime, More Go Time Reduce downtime and achieve more go-time, with detailed equipment-based insights from Shell industry experts. Shell LubeMatch Use this free online service to find the right lubricants for your vehicles and equipment in seconds. Our Experts Keep your equipment running smoothly with technical advice, smart new applications and insightful lubricant analysis Sector ExpertiseEffective lubrication requires a clear understanding of different types of customers and their needs. Shell’s experts specialize in providing the right products and the right advice which is unique to the customer’s business and the challenges they face. Discover Shell’s expertise across various sectors we operate within. Lubricants for Agriculture and Farming Grow your business by partnering with our technical experts and get more efficient lubrication solutions. Lubricants for Fleet Improve your fuel economy, lower your emissions, and reduce operating costs thanks to our efficient lubrication procedures. Lubricants for General Manufacturing Our lubricants for manufacturing are designed to help enhance the productivity and efficiency of your operations. Find out more. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Lubricants for Construction Unlocking cost savings in construction by upgrading lubrication. Lubricants for Mining and Quarrying Empowering productive, sustainable, and safe mining operations. Lubricants for Metals Improving energy efficiency and enhancing equipment protection through lubrication. Lubricants for the Cement Industry Lubricant products and services for the quarrying and cement industry, designed to help improve productivity and energy efficiency. Shell Lube Advisor Our experts can advise you on which oil to use to improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs. Download Shell Lube Advisor brochure Shell LubeAnalyst This early warning system lets you identify potential oil or equipment failures before they become critical. Shell LubeAnalyst (shell-lubeanalyst.shell.com) Shell LubeCoach We coach your team to deliver better performance through this in-depth lubrication training programme. Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeMatch Use this free online service to find the right lubricants for your vehicles and equipment in seconds. Shell LubeMatch Shell LubeVideoCheck This sophisticated fibre optic tool lets you inspect the inside of your engine without dismantling it. Download Shell Lube Video Check Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Auto & Truck DealersWe understand that business is complex and success means maximising margins, while attracting and retaining customers by delivering outstanding customer satisfaction. Our proven marketing initiatives, world-class brands and product portfolio - which is designed using leading technological innovation - can all help in delivering substantial business growth. Shell Lube Advisor Our experts can advise you on which oil to use to improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs. Download Shell Lube Advisor brochure Shell LubeAnalyst This early warning system lets you identify potential oil or equipment failures before they become critical. Shell LubeAnalyst (shell-lubeanalyst.shell.com) Shell LubeCoach We coach your team to deliver better performance through this in-depth lubrication training programme. Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeMatch Use this free online service to find the right lubricants for your vehicles and equipment in seconds. Shell LubeMatch Shell LubeVideoCheck This sophisticated fibre optic tool lets you inspect the inside of your engine without dismantling it. Download Shell Lube Video Check Heavy-duty diesel engine oil Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Heavy-duty diesel oil, Shell Rimula Truck Shell Helix car engine oils The right oil can help improve performance and reduce costs. Our wide range of products has been specially formulated and extensively tested to add value to your business. Find the right one for your operation. Car engine oils, Shell Helix Greases oils The longer your grease lasts, the longer your components last, and the less lubrication maintenance for your equipment. With a full product range of Shell Gadus greases, you can select the grease to best meet your needs. Greases oils, Shell Gadus Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell's offer to dealersTo stay ahead of the competition it’s important to maintain performance. Thanks to world-class lubricant brands, a product portfolio built on leading technological innovation and proven marketing initiatives, a partnership with Shell can deliver significant growth to your dealership. Every time we partner with a dealership, we tailor our offer to match their needs. So whatever your operating environment, your position in the business cycle, the competitive environment and local consumer behaviour, we will work to identify initiatives that will make a real difference to your business by: Shell Lube Advisor Our experts can advise you on which oil to use to improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs. Download Shell Lube Advisor brochure Shell LubeAnalyst This early warning system lets you identify potential oil or equipment failures before they become critical. Shell LubeAnalyst (shell-lubeanalyst.shell.com) Shell LubeCoach We coach your team to deliver better performance through this in-depth lubrication training programme. Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeMatch Use this free online service to find the right lubricants for your vehicles and equipment in seconds. Shell LubeMatch Shell LubeVideoCheck This sophisticated fibre optic tool lets you inspect the inside of your engine without dismantling it. Download Shell Lube Video Check Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Auto & Truck ManufacturersAt Shell we appreciate the variety of challenges you face, and offer a full range of products and services to help, from co-engineering technology partnerships, to joint marketing campaigns to maximise dealership profitability.As a business and technology partner, we can create a bespoke lubricants programme that is designed around your requirements. Technology partnership As you push technical boundaries in fields like fuel economy, performance and reliability, a technology partnership with Shell can help you achieve your goals. We can work hand in hand with your teams to apply our market-leading lubricant expertise to your technology challenges. Working with Daimler we developed Shell Rimula R6 LME, delivering the triple benefits of low emissions, maintenance savings and fuel economy of up to 2%*. By moving beyond the standard specifications, Shell has demonstrated an improvement of up to 6.5% fuel economy using an innovative concept lubricant. *Compared to a typical 10W-40 oil Global reliability Shell’s global reach gives you a secure supply of consistent, quality-assured products to your plants and dealerships around the world. So you can rely on getting access to the high-quality lubricants your vehicles need, wherever they are. We have leading positions in both mature and growth markets. For example, in USA we are the number one lubricants supplier and in China the leading international supplier. Maximising aftermarket value Working with Shell, you can generate ongoing value from your customer relationships through effective oil programmes. We offer extensive dealership support to help you capitalise on Shell’s status as a globally-recognised consumer brand with a reputation for quality and performance. Whether your dealership needs are customer retention, attraction, satisfaction or the need to increase profitability, Shell can create a bespoke oil programme and manage the implementation all the way through to the dealership. Shell Lube Advisor Our experts can advise you on which oil to use to improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs. Download Shell Lube Advisor brochure Shell LubeAnalyst This early warning system lets you identify potential oil or equipment failures before they become critical. Shell LubeAnalyst (shell-lubeanalyst.shell.com) Shell LubeCoach We coach your team to deliver better performance through this in-depth lubrication training programme. Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeMatch Use this free online service to find the right lubricants for your vehicles and equipment in seconds. Shell LubeMatch Shell LubeVideoCheck This sophisticated fibre optic tool lets you inspect the inside of your engine without dismantling it. Download Shell Lube Video Check Heavy-duty diesel engine oil High quality oil can help protect your equipment and maximise value. We have a whole range of protective products. Heavy-duty diesel engine oils, Shell Rimula Shell Helix car engine oils The right oil can help improve performance and reduce costs. Our wide range of products has been specially formulated and extensively tested to add value to your business. Find the right one for your operation. Car engine oils, Shell Helix Greases oils The longer your grease lasts, the longer your components last, and the less lubrication maintenance for your equipment. With a full product range of Shell Gadus greases, you can select the grease to best meet your needs. Greases oils, Shell Gadus Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Automotive componentsLubricants can be critical to your production efficiency and they’re often an integral component of your product.Whether you want to cut production-line maintenance costs with our latest-technology long-life oils and greases or to enhance vehicle or component efficiency with innovative initial-fill lubricants, we have a wide range of lubricants designed to meet your needs. Compressor oils Whatever your technical needs and operational conditions, explore our range of compressor oils to discover how Shell can help you get the most from your equipment investment. Learn more about Shell Corena compressor oils Greases The longer your grease lasts, the longer your components last, and the less lubrication maintenance for your equipment. With a full product range of Shell Gadus greases, you can select the grease to best meet your needs. Learn more about Shell Gadus greases Hydraulic fluids Find out how Shell hydraulic fluids can maintain or even improve the efficiency of your hydraulic systems with the latest synthetic, ashless technology. Learn more about Shell Tellus hydraulic fluid Our new online chat tool gives you answers to questions about oils and lubes. Find out more about Shell LubeChat Shell LubeAdvisor Our experts can advise you on which oil to use to improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs. Find out more about Shell LubeAdvisor Shell LubeAnalyst This early warning system lets you identify potential oil or equipment failures before they become critical. Find out more about Shell LubeAnalyst Shell LubeCoach We coach your team to deliver better performance through this in-depth lubrication training programme. Find out more about Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeMatch Use this free online service to find the right lubricants for your vehicles and equipment in seconds. Find out more about Shell LubeMatch Shell LubeVideoCheck This sophisticated fibre optic tool lets you inspect the inside of your engine without dismantling it. Find out more about Shell LubeVideoCheck Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Contact our experts Shell Rimula Truck & Heavy-duty Engine Oils Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Gadus Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Get maximum protection for your vehicle operations The Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and automatic transmission lubricants has been developed to provide choice when selecting the right oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations. Shell LubeAnalyst: Less Downtime, More Go Time Reduce downtime and achieve more go-time, with detailed equipment-based insights from Shell industry experts. LubeAdvisor: Give your equipment the support it requires Explore our technical expertise across the globe, on-site, online and over the phone. Shell LubeChat Online chat with instant access to Shell expertise, for informed decisions that could lower you total cost of ownership. A focus on lubrication can reduce your total cost of ownership in two ways. The first is ensuring that all your vehicles are supplied with the most appropriate lubricant solution. Then it’s equally important to ensure that your workforce understands the principles of effective lubricant management. For our fleet customers the most obvious advantage of optimal lubrication is an improvement in fuel efficiency. But beyond this, you can drive down costs by extending your vehicle life through the protection of critical components. You can also reduce unplanned vehicle downtime and improve your driving performance in challenging conditions, such as changeable weather or when carrying higher loads. Our technical specialists are ready to work with you to optimise your lubricant solutions. We have helped our customers around the world to save at least $139m through the proper selection and application of lubricants, and through training and empowering staff in lubrication management. In today’s market, there are numerous challenges facing fleets. From more stringent emissions regulations, to rising fuel costs and growing competition – particularly in the wake of sophisticated digital innovations – fleet operators need to be sharper than ever in order to protect and grow their businesses. Despite the challenge, only half of fleet managers consider lubricant product performance as a significant purchase consideration. At a time when driving efficiencies and reducing costs is at a critical point for many fleets, choosing a weak performance, generic lubricant can create significant risks, costs and problems down the line. Yet once again, over half of fleet managers do not expect quality lubricants and lubrication practices to help them cut maintenance costs. With Shell’s existing expertise in the sector, working with customers and OEMs, Shell lubricants and lubrication practices have proven to reduce the total cost per kilometre for fleets in a number of ways. For heavy duty diesel fleets, the high cost of the equipment is particularly important to protect with dependable lubrication. The benefits that proper quality lubricants and axle oils have are common to all fleets, when managed the right way. These benefits include improving component life, reducing vehicle down time, increasing oil drain intervals and preserving the engine’s cleanliness; for instance when a vehicle is under a higher load, ascending steep inclines or driving through sandy or dirty terrain. All of these things are costs fleet businesses have to deal with, and all of these costs can be reduced with the right lubricant and lubrication practices. Based on research commissioned by Shell Lubricants, conducted by Edelman Intelligence (Nov - Dec 2015.) Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on the equipment, incl. cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, and costs from lost production during downtime. Based on savings delivered to Shell Lubricants customers. Lubricants for Fleet Improve your fuel economy, lower your emissions, and reduce operating costs thanks to our efficient lubrication procedures. Power of Partnerships Discover how we can help you solve challenges and increase your business performance. Sector Expertise Discover Shell’s expertise in providing our customers the right products and the right advice across various sectors. About Road to RecoveryHealth and safety toolkits, expert programs, premium services and products to help you and your drivers on the Road to Recovery. Go Safely Your employees’ health and safety is always a priority, but now it’s more important than ever before. Safety is one of Shell’s core values, and today, we are dedicated to supporting you in maintaining and improving the health and safety of your drivers. This offering includes: Tips and guidance for maintaining physical & mental wellness Proper pandemic hygiene tips Recommendations on how to best keep any idled fleet equipment in operating condition. Go Further Today In the midst of uncertain times, it is important to keep your fleet operating efficiently, safely, and in top condition. Through Shell's range of premium products and services, you can increase uptime and minimize costs with access to premium programs including Shell LubeCoachAcademy, Shell LubeAnalyst, and more. Go Further Tomorrow As a fleet manager, you want to keep your fleet up to date with the latest technology and services. Only Shell has the expertise and offerings you need to rethink what is possible for running a business that is both profitable and sustainable heading into the future. As a part of this, we’re offering the most up to date tips on how to improve efficiency, reduce your costs and increase uptime of your fleet with: Fleet Growth Recovery Series Webinars Access to the most up to date industry information and whitepapers Expert advice from industry leaders Energy transition support, partnerships & training to revamp operations for maximum efficiencies, reduced fuel consumption, and sustainable practices Get Savings Shell is committed to helping you move your fleet forward with products and services that increase efficiency and value. As a fleet manager, you want to find ways to improve efficiency, reduce your total cost of operation and increase uptime of your fleet. You can maximize the value of your fleet during its entire lifespan through our complete portfolio of premium products, a best-in-class distribution network, and unmatched technical support. In addition, this program includes: Tools to help you calculate your savings A portfolio of premium products to secure sector growth Download Road to Recovery brochure Thrive on change Turn the challenge of change into opportunity with a partner who can help you accelerate your growth with tools, programs and partnerships to support your fleet’s journey and goals. Protect your fleet Learn how we can help you make more informed decisions, so you can maximize the value of your fleet — and the people who keep it running. Maximise efficiencies across your fleet See how Shell’s advanced products and services can help reduce vehicle repairs, lower emissions, and make your organization more cost-effective. Build for the next generation Explore the future of energy and its impact on fleets. Working together, we can help you turn the challenges ahead into sustainable growth. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Protect your fleet Learn how we can help you make more informed decisions, so you can maximize the value of your fleet — and the people who keep it running. Maximise efficiencies across your fleet See how Shell’s advanced products and services can help reduce vehicle repairs, lower emissions, and make your organization more cost-effective. Build for the next generation Explore the future of energy and its impact on fleets. Working together, we can help you turn the challenges ahead into sustainable growth. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Thrive on change Turn the challenge of change into opportunity with a partner who can help you accelerate your growth with tools, programs and partnerships to support your fleet’s journey and goals. Maximise efficiencies across your fleet See how Shell’s advanced products and services can help reduce vehicle repairs, lower emissions, and make your organization more cost-effective. Build for the next generation Explore the future of energy and its impact on fleets. Working together, we can help you turn the challenges ahead into sustainable growth. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Protect your fleet Learn how we can help you make more informed decisions, so you can maximize the value of your fleet — and the people who keep it running. Thrive on change Turn the challenge of change into opportunity with a partner who can help you accelerate your growth with tools, programs and partnerships to support your fleet’s journey and goals. Build for the next generation Explore the future of energy and its impact on fleets. Working together, we can help you turn the challenges ahead into sustainable growth. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. What is Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint Ambition? Shell wants to contribute to the global effort to tackle climate change and meet the goal of the Paris Agreement. Working towards our Net Carbon Footprint ambition is how we plan to do this. The Sky Scenario Data Tool Webinar Watch the highlights from the webinar held on April 17, 2018 in which the Projects and Technology Executive Director, Harry Brekelmans and Jeremy Benthem, Head of Shell Scenarios, discussed the significance of Sky. Fleet Carbon Footprint and Savings Calculator Explore a visual representation of your fleet’s impact on the environment and build the business case for change. The Shell Fleet Carbon Footprint & Savings Calculator shows you how switching engine oil can improve fleet efficiency – driving cost, carbon and operational savings. Could the 1.5°C stretch goal of the Paris Agreement be met? The Paris Agreement has sent a signal, but could society do enough to achieve the goals of this landmark climate agreement? Decarbonising Road Freight Read the latest report Decarbonising Road Freight: Getting into gear, which outlines industry perspectives on how to accelerate reducing carbon emissions from trucks, buses and light duty vehicles. Protect your fleet Learn how we can help you make more informed decisions, so you can maximize the value of your fleet — and the people who keep it running. Maximise efficiencies across your fleet See how Shell’s advanced products and services can help reduce vehicle repairs, lower emissions, and make your organization more cost-effective. Thrive on change Turn the challenge of change into opportunity with a partner who can help you accelerate your growth with tools, programs and partnerships to support your fleet’s journey and goals. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Smart Transport Manager Training Smart Transport Manager Training: Sustainability Training for Fleet Managers Shell Lubricants Solutions and Smart Freight Centre have collaborated to deliver the Smart Transport Manager Training (STMT). This training programme brings together insights from leading industry experts in the freight sector, and will educate fleet managers on how best to lower operational costs, improve efficiencies and reduce carbon emissions. Fleet managers that have implemented some of the measures have reported a 5% to 20% fuel efficiency improvement and reduced fleet operating costs.1 Road freight contributes to 62% of logistics GHG emissions* *Source: ITF Transport Outlook, 2019. 33% are still trying to determine the right path for their company* *Frost & Sullivan. “Virtual Think Tank: Accelerating Fleets Toward a Sustainable Future.” Frost & Sullivan. 3 in 10 fear implementing new fleet technologies because of uncertainty if they will work* *Frost & Sullivan. “Virtual Think Tank: Accelerating Fleets Toward a Sustainable Future.” Frost & Sullivan. Road Transport produces over half of all trade related freight emsisions* *International Transport Forum. “The Carbon Footprint of Global Trade.” ITF-OECD.org. 2015. https://www.itf-oecd.org/carbon-footprint-global-trade (accessed September,17, 2020). 20% question how to calculate ROI* *Frost & Sullivan. “Virtual Think Tank: Accelerating Fleets Toward a Sustainable Future.” Frost & Sullivan. 70% of fleets are committed to forwarding sustainability goals, but only 40% of fleet organisations have a sustainability strategy* *Frost & Sullivan. “Virtual Think Tank: Accelerating Fleets Toward a Sustainable Future.” Frost & Sullivan. Plotting a roadmap for reduced road freight emissions Commercial road transport is the main CO2 emitter in international trade-related transport, producing over half of all trade related freight emissions.2 In order to significantly reduce this figure, in line with international climate agreements and Shell’s own effort to become a net-zero energy supplier by 2050, more needs to be done to support the industry as it navigates through the energy transition. STMT helps fleet managers strengthen their knowledge of the latest technologies and methodologies regarding sustainability, without needing to compromise other essential areas of business performance. All with the goal of creating a more successful and sustainable industry environment. 1 https://www.smartfreightcentre.org/en/news/?category=455 2 International Transport Forum. “The Carbon Footprint of Global Trade.” ITF-OECD.org. 2015. https://www.itf-oecd.org/carbon-footprint-global-trade (accessed September 17, 2020). What does the Smart Transport Manager Training cover? Fuels and lubricants: How fuel and lubricants choice can influence fuel economy, emissions and costs. Drivers : How fleets and drivers can change their behaviour to radically reduce emissions, fuel costs and even maintenance requirements. Vehicles: How fleets can maximise utilisation and minimise emissions by choosing exactly the right vehicle type for the task at hand. Performance monitoring: How fleets can accurately measure and track their emissions using the right tools and a robust and consistent methodology. Information technology: How fleets can reduce their environmental impact and overheads using telematics, onboard monitoring and other technologies. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Build an impactful business case for efficient operations Switching to a lower-viscosity engine oil has the potential to improve fleet efficiency – generating cost, carbon, and operational savings. Yet, faced with the pressures of rising costs and lower emissions targets, fleet managers need the ability to build a business case for making the switch. This means calculating and understanding the potential impact a lower-viscosity engine oil can have on fleet efficiency. The Shell Fleet Carbon Footprint & Savings Calculator does exactly that, using basic fleet information to create annualised projections – along with visualisations to highlight the benefits of switching at a glance. Fleet managers can then take their calculation a step further and build a sustainability roadmap by registering for Smart Transport Manager Training. The savings indicated are specific to the calculation date and are not a guarantee of potential performance or savings, as variables may affect your outcome. These variables are unique to each fleet operation and include, but are not limited to: product application, operating conditions, equipment condition, maintenance practices and driver behaviour. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Achieving Growth Plant the seeds of lubrication excellence now and you’ll soon be reaping the Total Cost of Ownership benefits. 3 Ways Farming Can Contribute to A Sustainable Future For sustainable agriculture to be a success it will require new thinking, but it also requires these three key elements. Case Study: Saving with a Smarter Grease Solution See how Shell Lubricant Solutions doubled one company’s combine harvester component life. Heavy duty engine oils For an engine that works as hard as you do, choose our heavy-duty diesel engine oils. Designed to give outstanding wear protection with reduced viscosity for improved fuel economy. Transmission Oils Tested over 20 million kilometres of field trials, you can rely on our axle and transmission oils to get you through harvest season. Greases Choose a grease that offers enhanced wear protection and long grease life, keeping you on track from sun-up to sundown. Agriculture Total Cost of Ownership From lubrication practices that extend equipment life to minimising unplanned downtime and increasing ODIs, our experts help you reduce your farming equipment’s Total Cost of Ownership1. It is estimated that by 2050, the world’s population will surpass 9 billion2. The ever-growing demand for safe, nutritious foods pushes continuous growth in the agriculture sector, yet stricter requirements and regulations around CO2 emissions raise challenges for farming operations. While the world is adopting cleaner and non-conventional fuels as one way to meet new targets, these changes offer new compatibility, performance and financial challenges regarding maintenance and lubrication. Yet, in agriculture, there remain two key ways to help reduce your total cost of equipment ownership: use the most appropriate lubricant for every vehicle and piece of equipment, implement effective lubrication management. Since competition within the agriculture sector is driven by small achievements in productivity, achieving growth requires every element of the operation to be optimised. Yet despite this, only 44 per cent of the industry places importance on product performance when purchasing lubricants3. While more than half have experienced unplanned downtime owing to errors in equipment lubrication. To ensure you are using the right lubricants in the right way, our technical specialists are on hand to supply you with the necessary: training maintenance solutions support in lubrication handling and analysis With the help of Shell’s expertise, our agricultural customers have: extended their ODIs by as much as 160 per cent reduced hydraulic oil consumption by up to 25 per cent Accrued $1.9 million in savings4 1 Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on the equipment, incl. cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, and costs from lost production during downtime. 2 ‘Growing At A Slower Pace, World Population Is Expected To Reach 9.7 Billion In 2050 And Could Peak At Nearly 11 Billion Around 2100’, United Nations, 17 June, 2019 (https://www.un.org/development/desa/en/news/population/world-population-prospects-2019.html). 3 Based on research commissioned by Shell Lubricants, conducted by Edelman Intelligence (Nov – Dec 2015). 4 Based on savings delivered to Shell Lubricants customers. End-to-End Agriculture Solutions Learn how to connect the dots between productivity, sustainability and profit with our suite of effective lubrication solutions. The Future of Farming Find out how new technology in agriculture is changing the way we view and approach the most pressing industry challenges. Asset Protection Make the right maintenance choices and you can protect your agriculture equipment without compromising your bottom line. Next Generation Partnerships It’s time to cultivate the farmers of tomorrow. But first, education is needed to master modern farming methods. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Unearth the Potential of Your Agricultural Operations The modern farmer is regularly pulled in several different directions. Amidst a rise in produce demand yet reduced workforces, growth in sustainable agriculture as well as a need for digital transformation, the future may seem challenging for commercial agriculture businesses. But conflicting goals like these share a common imperative to increase: productivity; sustainability; and profits Effective lubrication and proactive maintenance help ensure that pressure is taken off farming equipment and, subsequently, your bottom line. It can help boost fuel economy and reduce the resulting emissions, too. And advances in biodegradable lubricants mean you can choose to protect both your equipment and your environment - minimising any negative impact on plants, animals and the local ecosystem resulting from accidental leaks or spills. All of this can free you up to focus on the growth opportunities in your business, whether that be smart farming, precision agriculture or other modern farming methods. Products and Services Modern agriculture businesses deserve next generation products and services – discover the Shell Lubricant Solutions range today. Case Study: Saving with a Smarter Grease Solution See how Shell Lubricant Solutions doubled one company’s combine harvester component life. Next Generation Partnerships It’s time to cultivate the farmers of tomorrow. But first, education is needed to master modern farming methods. Achieving Growth Plant the seeds of lubrication excellence now and you’ll soon be reaping the Total Cost of Ownership benefits. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Lubricant Solutions for Agriculture Business Growth The agriculture industry is often at the mercy of its environment. From unpredictable weather to unforeseen economic challenges, it can sometimes feel that business success is out of your control. This is why it’s important to double down on the variables that you can affect, like your equipment’s performance. Too often, the root cause of underperforming machinery is incorrect lubrication. A trusted partner like Shell Lubricant Solutions can guide your maintenance plan down the right track, with high-quality fluids and high-value maintenance services. Contact us to learn more about how our products and services can help your business grow. Shell Rimula: Meeting the Challenges of Modern Farming If your agricultural machinery doesn’t perform at its best, your business can’t grow. Our range of Shell Rimula heavy duty engine oils are here to help. Find out how. Shell Gadus: Helping to Lower the Total Cost of Ownership in Agriculture Grease may only be a small part of your maintenance budget, but it can improve your productivity and help to significantly decrease your maintenance costs. Find out how. Heavy duty engine oils For an engine that works as hard as you do, choose our heavy-duty diesel engine oils. Designed to give outstanding wear protection with reduced viscosity for improved fuel economy. Transmission Oils Tested over 20 million kilometres of field trials, you can rely on our axle and transmission oils to get you through harvest season. Greases Choose a grease that offers enhanced wear protection and long grease life, keeping you on track from sun-up to sundown. Shell LubeAdvisor From office-based technical helpdesks to field-based lubrication engineers, our team of world class support staff is ready to help you choose the right products and improve lubrication processes. Shell LubeAnalyst Oil condition monitoring that enables you to continually track your equipment’s performance and use those insights to inform better maintenance decisions. Shell LubeCoach Upskill your employees through a customised training programme, delivered in-person or through our e-learning portal by Shell technical experts with substantial in-field experience. Hey Google, How Do I Make My Farm More Profitable? Tech innovation is driving rapid changes in agriculture, making an effective maintenance plan and trusted partnerships more important than ever. Our industry report, Powering Peak Performance in Agriculture, reveals: more than two-thirds of farm owners and managers think a lack of staff expertise plays a role in equipment breakdowns1. around 60 per cent believe maintenance staff would benefit from additional lubrication training, external support and expertise from a trusted supplier1. But many feel they lack the time to tackle this knowledge gap because of competing demands, such as: increasing equipment costs, a shrinking workforce pool, increasing consumer expectations. Added to this, the economic realities farmers are facing today – such as the increasing pressure of competing in a globalised market – present additional challenges. The availability of cheaper, imported grain, produce and other staple crops means many farms must find new ways to compete and stay in business. Despite these challenges, the World Economic Forum estimates an additional two billion people will need to be fed by 20502. Fortunately, technology is helping farmers find smart ways to do more with less: Drones and UAV technology can check for problem areas in crops within a matter of minutes. AI software can then use this data to direct robotic systems to undertake spraying and harvesting. Sensors can also help control seed-planting depth or measure chemical inputs. But digital tools must be complemented by in-person technical advice, because analysis and application make all the difference. Meaning farmers need trusted expert services to: identify correct lubrication solutions anticipate technical problems before they occur train staff to keep equipment in peak operating condition With the right guidance, technology can help transform the agricultural sector, enabling farmers to better maintain valuable equipment and avoid spending money on expensive, unnecessary repairs. 1 Agriculture: Global Report Powering Peak Performance’, Edelman Intelligence, and Shell, May 2018. 2 ‘Shaping the Future of Global Food Systems: A Scenarios Analysis’, World Economic Forum and Deloitte, 2017. End-to-End Agriculture Solutions Learn how to connect the dots between productivity, sustainability and profit with our suite of effective lubrication solutions. Asset Protection Make the right maintenance choices and you can protect your agriculture equipment without compromising your bottom line. Next Generation Partnerships It’s time to cultivate the farmers of tomorrow. But first, education is needed to master modern farming methods. Achieving Growth Plant the seeds of lubrication excellence now and you’ll soon be reaping the Total Cost of Ownership benefits. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Equipment Maintenance: Protecting Profits Come Rain or Shine Having the right plan and partner has saved farming customers $2 million in recent years, as well as helping to meet their specialised equipment requirements. Worldwide, rising equipment costs are adding to the pressures of an industry increasingly transformed by globalisation. In such a demanding environment, it’s crucial that valuable assets perform well – for as long as possible. If a large four-wheel-drive tractor and cab costs $75,000 to buy, and is used for 20 days a year, it needs to last 25 years to earn its keep. When it comes to equipment that is used more frequently, and static machinery that runs daily, maintenance is even more crucial, because longevity and availability are key. And yet, our research shows nearly half of all farmers don’t prioritise maintaining and protecting their current equipment. Our industry report, Powering Peak Performance in Agriculture, shows 86 per cent of farmers have experienced equipment breakdowns in the past three years1. Moving forward, to ensure their equipment can work as hard as they do, farmers need the right support and partnerships, as well as access to high-quality planned maintenance and lubricants. On top of providing superior lubricants, transmission oils and greases, a valuable partner should have long-standing expertise in the agriculture sector. As well as a deep understanding of the trends likely to impact farmers’ businesses. Whatever their goals, farmers who have worked with Shell Lubricant Solutions have saved close to $2 million in recent years. Now that’s a conversation worth having. 1 ‘Agriculture: Global Report Powering Peak Performance’, Edelman Intelligence, and Shell May 2018. Savings indicated are specific to the calculation dates and mentioned sites. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. End-to-End Agriculture Solutions Learn how to connect the dots between productivity, sustainability and profit with our suite of effective lubrication solutions. The Future of Farming Find out how new technology in agriculture is changing the way we view and approach the most pressing industry challenges. Next Generation Partnerships It’s time to cultivate the farmers of tomorrow. But first, education is needed to master modern farming methods. Achieving Growth Plant the seeds of lubrication excellence now and you’ll soon be reaping the Total Cost of Ownership benefits. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Farmers of the Future: Addressing the Skills Gap in Agriculture Investing in maintenance and lubrication skills is key to ensuring the success of agricultural operations for future generations of farmers. Recruitment and retention are increasing challenges for the agricultural sector, with the European agricultural workforce expected to decline by 28 per cent between 2017 and 20301. So how can employers address the skills gap in agriculture to safeguard a future farming generation? Agricultural roles have often been written off as difficult, low skilled and low paid work. But the digital transformation of the sector in fact calls for a tech-savvy, highly skilled workforce, as confident with spreadsheets as they are with soil sampling. According to our industry research2: almost half of farming businesses admit they are facing a lack of expertise and training nearly three quarters think inadequate staff expertise plays a role in breakdowns2 Though a lack of training and expertise may exist, a key industry opportunity is Generation Z – a young demographic with a thirst for knowledge. To secure the farmers of the future, employers in agriculture need to adopt new and exciting ways to engage and then train potential employees. To help this process along, Shell Lubricant Solutions is supporting knowledge exchange, by offering the latest training services. Shell LubeCoach provides tailored training to help staff ensure equipment is properly maintained. And course content is modular, meaning farm owners can choose what is covered by staff, and whether it’s done in-person or online. Because, as emerging innovations necessitate new skills, the future success of agricultural operations depends on: getting the most out of machinery investing in skills around maintenance and lubrication optimising farming productivity and efficiency. 1 EU Agricultural Outlook: European Agricultural Labour and Total Income Expected to Decrease by 2030’, European Commission, 19 December, 2017 (https://ec.europa.eu/info/news/eu-agricultural-outlook-european-agricultural-labour-and-total-income-expected-to-decrease-by-2030_en). 2 ‘Agriculture: Global Report Powering Peak Performance’, Edelman Intelligence, and Shell, May 2018 End-to-End Agriculture Solutions Learn how to connect the dots between productivity, sustainability and profit with our suite of effective lubrication solutions. The Future of Farming Find out how new technology in agriculture is changing the way we view and approach the most pressing industry challenges. Asset Protection Make the right maintenance choices and you can protect your agriculture equipment without compromising your bottom line. Achieving Growth Plant the seeds of lubrication excellence now and you’ll soon be reaping the Total Cost of Ownership benefits. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Sustainable farming places increasing importance on agricultural machinery working efficiently and reliably for optimum productivity. To help farmers meet these goals, we’ve outline three key areas of focus: 1. Upgrade Your Technology Technology is key to driving efficiency and exponentially scaling value delivered. Farmers and food producers now have access to more advanced precision equipment than ever before, as agriculture is increasingly revolutionised by industry 4.0: drones help growers monitor crops GPS technologies help with soil sampling, field mapping and crop scouting autonomous vehicles and robotic technology benefit labour-intensive tasks 2. Effective Lubrication Ensuring equipment is always working at peak performance will become increasingly important as the sustainable agenda grows. Our industry research shows that 68 per cent of farmers say maximising the lifespan of existing equipment is a priority, however 41 per cent often experience equipment breakdown due to ineffective lubrication1. The solution to this evident knowledge gap is to help farmers upskill and increase their knowledge of lubricants, enabling them to play their part in meeting the UN’s sustainable farming targets. 3. Knowledge is Power Services such as Shell LubeMatch allow farmers to find the right lubricant for their equipment in seconds. While Shell LubeCoach offers an expert-led training programme to help employers, and their staff, deliver better performance through an in-depth lubrication training programme. Products and partnerships are key solutions to this global challenge and, with a little help, farmers can play an important role in delivering a sustainable future. 1 ‘Agriculture: Global Report Powering Peak Performance’, Edelman Intelligence, and Shell, May 2018 End-to-End Agriculture Solutions Learn how to connect the dots between productivity, sustainability and profit with our suite of effective lubrication solutions. Case Study: Saving with a Smarter Grease Solution See how Shell Lubricant Solutions doubled one company’s combine harvester component life. Next Generation Partnerships It’s time to cultivate the farmers of tomorrow. But first, education is needed to master modern farming methods. Asset Protection Make the right maintenance choices and you can protect your agriculture equipment without compromising your bottom line. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Shell Gadus Doubles Combine Harvester Component Life Overcoming demanding conditions with a smarter grease solution Challenge An equipment renter to the Uruguayan agriculture sector, Cosecha Patria Vieja regularly changes and then greases all bushings and bearings on its New Holland TC-59 combine harvesters ahead of each harvest season. Doing so helps ensure performance but can also be expensive. Solution In an attempt to reduce component and grease costs, the company switched to Shell Gadus S3 V460D 2. The product was selected due to its enhanced mechanical stability and good performance in wet conditions when compared to competitor products. Impact In choosing a product form the Shell Gadus range of greases, Csecha Patria Vieja was able to extend the time between component replacement and grease application to two harvest seasons. This doubling in component life enabled an associated annual saving of $9,050 through: lower grease consumption, reduced component costs, increased equipment availability. Savings indicated are specific to the calculation dates and mentioned sites. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. End-to-End Agriculture Solutions Learn how to connect the dots between productivity, sustainability and profit with our suite of effective lubrication solutions. The Future of Farming Find out how new technology in agriculture is changing the way we view and approach the most pressing industry challenges. Asset Protection Make the right maintenance choices and you can protect your agriculture equipment without compromising your bottom line. Achieving Growth Plant the seeds of lubrication excellence now and you’ll soon be reaping the Total Cost of Ownership benefits. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Future-Proofing Production Shift your maintenance strategy into the future with solutions that help you put digitalisation and sustainability at the forefront. Protecting Your Costs By showing businesses worldwide the impact of proper lubrication on Total Cost of Ownership, we’ve helped them make $139 million in savings. Find out how we did it. Collaborative Networks Discover how our work with customers and OEMs is proving that partnerships are helping to mould the future of manufacturing. 3 Ways to Boost Productivity Is your business making the most of its equipment? Learn how these three simple strategies can help unlock its full potential. Hydraulic Oils Hydraulic systems power your production line. But what’s powering your hydraulics? Make it the latest synthetic fluid with ashless technology. Greases Don’t let friction stand in the way of you and a smooth operation. Choose a high-quality grease that meets your needs. Gear Oils Protect asset life by choosing an oil that is designed to help your equipment operate for longer without interruption. Compressor Oils Take the pressure of your compressors with oils that deliver optimum value through enhanced wear protection and long oil life. Shell LubeAnalyst Our oil condition monitoring service draws on more than 30 years of technical experience, keeping your equipment running through personalised diagnoses. Shell LubeChat Have questions about your oils and lubricants? Get answers on demand with our 24/7 digital chat tool. Shell LubeAdvisor Give your equipment the support it deserves with advice from our highly trained technical staff, either on-site or over the phone. Shell LubeOptimiser An end-to-end solution designed to help companies address common challenges, such as simplifying operations, reducing downtime, and protecting equipment. Solutions that Help You Produce More with Less The manufacturing industry spans a range of sectors, and there is nothing really ‘general’ about any of them. From industrial manufacturer to precision plastics, the majority are highly diversified and vastly complex, often as a result of intricate machinery and demanding environments. Throughout every subsector, however, one thing remains constant: the need for sustainable productivity. Maximum output, minimal impact, and optimum profit; all amidst technological changes and shifting conditions. Connecting these dots can be challenging, but the right partner can help take the complexity out of your operations. Discover how Shell Lubricant Solutions’ specialist lubricants, bespoke services and end-to-end solutions can help simplify your day-to-day operations. Products and Services Perfect your production line with a portfolio of products and services that are designed to support long-term success. Collaborative Networks Discover how our work with customers and OEMs is proving that partnerships are helping to mould the future of manufacturing. Lubricants for Automotive Components Our lubricants for automotive components are designed to help enhance the performance of your finished products and factory operations. Find out more. Lubricants for Plastic Injection Moulding The right lubricants and supporting services can help optimise your plastic injection moulding operation. Find out more. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Assemble a Winning Portfolio of Manufacturing Solutions An effective manufacturing operation relies on maintenance excellence. From the lubricants you select to the services you engage, a well-thought-out maintenance strategy can not only help to maximise productivity in the short term but can also futureproof your business for years to come. Shell Lubricant Solutions offers end-to-end guidance to help you shape this strategy, with advanced lubrication and technical expertise that will ensure you have the most efficient procedures in place, all with the aim of: Boosting productivity Reducing equipment downtime Lowering overall maintenance costs Explore our range of maintenance solutions and see how you could create a smoother operation. Hydraulic Oils Hydraulic systems power your production line. But what’s powering your hydraulics? Make it the latest synthetic fluid with ashless technology. Greases Don’t let friction stand in the way of you and a smooth operation. Choose a high-quality grease that meets your needs. Gear Oils Protect asset life by choosing an oil that is designed to help your equipment operate for longer without interruption. Compressor Oils Take the pressure of your compressors with oils that deliver optimum value through enhanced wear protection and long oil life. Shell LubeAnalyst Our oil condition monitoring service draws on more than 30 years of technical experience, keeping your equipment running through personalised diagnoses. Shell LubeChat Have questions about your oils and lubricants? Get answers on demand with our 24/7 digital chat tool. Shell LubeAdvisor Give your equipment the support it deserves with advice from our highly trained technical staff, either on-site or over the phone. Shell LubeOptimiser An end-to-end solution designed to help companies address common challenges, such as simplifying operations, reducing downtime, and protecting equipment. Integrating Digital and Sustainable Thinking into Your Production Line The manufacturing industry has largely been quick to integrate new practices that can help to boost overall productivity. The emergence of Industry 4.0 has seen several digital technologies widely adopted, with robotics, automation and Artificial Intelligence (AI) used by many companies. However, the next significant frontier in this journey towards meaningful progress is sustainability. In line with wider societal priorities, manufacturing companies are increasingly building sustainability goals into their business plans, meaning that – if progress is to be deemed successful – it must take into account both digitalisation and sustainability considerations, and how the two can combine to boost business from top to bottom. Upgrade Your Digital Capabilities For many businesses across the manufacturing ecosystem, Industry 4.0 technologies are well established: Robotics help to increase production line speed and efficiency Automation protects worker safety AI and machine learning allow greater operational cost control However, as external tensions emerge – from labour shortages to trade uncertainties – the next logical step is to leverage these digital capabilities to strengthen business agility and scalability. Areas like cloud computing and advanced analytics can allow companies to adopt “flexible factories” that are better positioned to identify emerging opportunities and deliver scalable results. Grow Your Sustainability Credentials Just as digitalisation helps operations become more adaptable to changing conditions, it also helps them work towards sustainability goals, by streamlining processes and maximising efficiencies throughout the supply chain. And this holistic approach is key, as sustainability measures need to be present in each link of this chain to be effective, from the lubricant selected to the maintenance services employed. As potentially the greatest challenge of our time, Shell Lubricant Solutions is helping customers build out their sustainability strategy by offering a range of solutions, including: Our portfolio of carbon neutral lubricants Our Shell Naturelle range of biodegradable lubricants A variety of maintenance services that can help promote energy efficiency End-to-End Solutions for General Manufacturing Modern manufacturing is all about doing more with less. Learn how to get more output with less waste, and more production with less downtime. Products and Services Perfect your production line with a portfolio of products and services that are designed to support long-term success. Collaborative Networks Discover how our work with customers and OEMs is proving that partnerships are helping to mould the future of manufacturing. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Manufacturing Our lubricants for manufacturing are designed to help enhance the productivity and efficiency of your operations. Find out more. General Manufacturing Total Cost of Ownership Our experts have helped customers make $139m in savings worldwide1. Together, we can help you by considering the end-to-end impact on maintenance budgets and processes, as well as costs related to lost production during equipment downtime. In manufacturing, the impact of lubrication on maintenance costs is critical. There are two ways in which you can lower your total cost of ownership2: ensuring that you use the most appropriate lubricant for each type of equipment; and understanding and implementing effective lubricant management. With productivity paramount, customers are seeking to increase output capacity by minimising unplanned equipment shutdowns and extending maintenance cycles3. Machinery is required to work under higher temperatures, greater power density and higher operating pressures. Shell’s experts work to meet the demands of changing machinery, ensuring that the right lubricants and lubrication practices are in place to reduce the total cost of machinery ownership for customers. At Shell, our expertise goes beyond producing high quality lubricants: Shell Lubricant Solutions has long-standing relationships with many OEMs and a portfolio of products which now has over 3,000 approvals or equipment manufacturer recommendations; our technical specialists can help you to optimise your lubrication management, and ensure that your workforce is trained in this essential discipline. This will maximise equipment efficiency, help reduce energy consumption and operating costs, raise productivity, product quality and equipment uptime and extend component life through the most effective lubrication. Shell’s experts ensure that the right lubricants and lubrication practices are in place to reduce the total cost of machinery ownership for customers. 1 Based on savings delivered to Shell Lubricants customers. 2 Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on the equipment, incl. cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, and costs from lost production during downtime. 3 Based on research commissioned by Shell Lubricants, conducted by Edelman Intelligence (Nov - Dec 2015.) Unlocking the Hidden Potential of Manufacturing Get the most out of your lubricants by understanding their impact on Total Cost of Ownership. Download our whitepaper to find out more. End-to-End Solutions for General Manufacturing Modern manufacturing is all about doing more with less. Learn how to get more output with less waste, and more production with less downtime. Products and Services Perfect your production line with a portfolio of products and services that are designed to support long-term success. Future-Proofing Production Shift your maintenance strategy into the future with solutions that help you put digitalisation and sustainability at the forefront. 3 Ways to Boost Productivity Is your business making the most of its equipment? Learn how these three simple strategies can help unlock its full potential. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Manufacturing Our lubricants for manufacturing are designed to help enhance the productivity and efficiency of your operations. Find out more. Why the Future of Manufacturing Needs Collective Thinking As marketplaces become more competitive and operating environments more demanding, effective collaboration is one means of staying ahead of the curve. The right partnerships can help to introduce new ways of working, new modes of thinking, or new lines of business. All of which ladder up to a higher-performing and more resilient manufacturing operation, especially when related to the growing industry focus on digital and sustainability initiatives. The maintenance solutions provided by Shell Lubricant Solutions are built on a strong and longstanding ethos of collaboration, with both our customers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Customer Collaboration In an ever-expanding ecosystem, it’s becoming increasingly unsustainable for manufacturing businesses to exist and operate in isolation. Cross-industry collaboration is critical for: plugging knowledge gaps; identifying growth opportunities; and adapting operations to protect from – or take advantage of – market volatility. Shell collaborates closely with customers across the globe to help keep their businesses in motion, providing solutions such as: Shell LubeAdvisor – Equipment support from industry experts, including detailed plant assessments and lubrication surveys. Shell LubeOptimiser – A network of on-site reliability service providers that can help you overcome manpower, productivity or downtime challenges. Shell LubeChat – A 24/7 online solutions service, equipping you with the knowledge needed to make more informed decisions and take meaningful actions. OEM Partnerships Also driving Shell’s manufacturing maintenance solutions – from advanced lubricants to digital services – are long-standing relationships with various OEMs. As a result, Shell has more than 3,000 approvals or equipment manufacturer recommendations, all aimed at increasing efficiency, reducing costs and protecting your bottom line. End-to-End Solutions for General Manufacturing Modern manufacturing is all about doing more with less. Learn how to get more output with less waste, and more production with less downtime. Products and Services Perfect your production line with a portfolio of products and services that are designed to support long-term success. Lubricants for Plastic Injection Moulding The right lubricants and supporting services can help optimise your plastic injection moulding operation. Find out more. Lubricants for Automotive Components Our lubricants for automotive components are designed to help enhance the performance of your finished products and factory operations. Find out more. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Manufacturing Our lubricants for manufacturing are designed to help enhance the productivity and efficiency of your operations. Find out more. How to Get the Most from Your Manufacturing Equipment Your manufacturing operation is only as productive as the machinery you use. And that machinery requires ongoing attention to ensure it is operating consistently at the peak of its potential. Consider these three tips for optimising your equipment and see which areas of your business might require action. 1. Invest in Your Maintenance Strategy Effective maintenance should be the foundation of your operation. Downtime can be disastrous for both deadlines and finances, so limiting it is vital. But with so many moving parts in play, it can be challenging to stay on top of your entire equipment portfolio. A holistic maintenance strategy – that takes an end-to-end approach to operations – can help to tie together thinking throughout your business. Selecting the right lubricant for the applications at hand is a key first step. But this must be followed by ongoing maintenance practices, such as oil condition monitoring (OCM), in order to identify and prevent potential issues before they become business critical. 2. Review Your Technology Once your strategy is in place, it’s time to consider how it might be improved by the introduction of maintenance technologies. If digital processes are already in play, it can be worth checking that you are getting the most possible out of your data collection or that systems are set up to optimise your equipment rather than hinder it. Alternatively, there may be an opportunity to make a new investment. The onset of Industry 4.0 has put a whole host of capabilities at our fingertips; from connected equipment to remote sensors, digital integration can go a long way to making your equipment more productive, more energy-efficient and more profitable. For more on how Shell could help, explore our services portfolio. 3. Prioritise Skills Development Even the best plans can fall down if your people are not equipped with maintenance or technology best practices. Whether you’re upskilling current staff or onboarding new members, a workforce needs consistent training in order to maximise your operation’s productivity. To help answer this need, Shell LubeCoach is an expert oil training programme that has been designed to provide your staff with high-quality training materials. With a modular format that can be delivered online or in-person, you can tailor the content to the needs of your staff. The courses and workshops will set your team up for success when it comes to optimising the application of lubrication and maximising productivity. End-to-End Solutions for General Manufacturing Modern manufacturing is all about doing more with less. Learn how to get more output with less waste, and more production with less downtime. Products and Services Perfect your production line with a portfolio of products and services that are designed to support long-term success. Shell LubeAnalyst Our oil condition monitoring service draws on more than 30 years of technical experience, keeping your equipment running through personalised diagnoses. Shell LubeCoach Upskill your team and upgrade your maintenance, with in-depth lubrication training delivered through a series of customisable modules. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Manufacturing Our lubricants for manufacturing are designed to help enhance the productivity and efficiency of your operations. Find out more. Identifying Efficiencies Your hydraulic oil is capable of more than you might think. Choosing the right one could save you both time and money. 3 Tips for Optimising Your Lubrication Read our three-step plan for enhancing the power of lubrication in your plastic injection moulding business. Case Study: Pilsa Plastics We helped extend this operation’s oil-drain intervals by 100 per cent. What could we do for yours? Hydraulic Fluid Shell Tellus fluids are designed to provide robust protection for your hydraulic system and help you to reduce incidence of equipment failure. Greases The Shell Gadus range provides low-noise, high quality greases for your electric motors and bearings. Compressor Oils Explore our range of Shell Corena compressor oils, proven to help reduce your operational costs without compromising protection. Gear Oils Keep your gears turning with Shell Omala gear oils that meet the demands of the most advanced OEM gearbox designs. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Manufacture a More Efficient Operation In an industry as fast-moving as plastics manufacturing, where speed and efficiency are king, it can be difficult to balance competing priorities. But no matter your workload, lubrication is one area that you can’t afford to overlook. Not only can it help protect both productivity and profits, but it can also contribute to your sustainability targets, and provide an opportunity for differentiation amidst a highly competitive marketplace. Because, more than half of your industry competitors often experience breakdowns due to ineffective lubrication1. Breakdowns that lead to higher maintenance costs and lower efficiency. Our aim is to help your company proactively use effective lubrication to your advantage, by: maximising output minimising costs meeting your sustainability goals. 1 Survey commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by independent research firm Edelman Intelligence. Based on 493 interviews with manufacturing sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 8 countries (Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, India, Russia, UK, US) from November to December 2015. Products and Services Keep your systems running to spec with products and services that unlock equipment performance and energy efficiency. Case Study: Pilsa Plastics We helped extend this operation’s oil-drain intervals by 100 per cent. What could we do for yours? 3 Tips for Optimising Your Lubrication Read our three-step plan for enhancing the power of lubrication in your plastic injection moulding business. Lubricants for Plastic Injection Moulding Learn more about how we can support your plastic manufacturing operations. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. The Productivity and Efficiency Boost Hiding in Your Hydraulic Oil Lubricants play a vital role in helping extend the life of injection moulding machines. They can also deliver a significant reduction in a plant’s energy consumption. In injection moulding, hydraulic oil is the lifeblood of the machine, tasked with transmitting power mechanically throughout the system, often in 24/7 operations. In doing so, it is exposed to: high pressure fluctuations in temperature contaminants, such as water and air. A good hydraulic oil should therefore be able to cope with typical application challenges such as: wear, corrosion and oil leaks oxidation and thermal breakdown build-up of sludge and varnish. Why invest in high quality hydraulic oil? Since hydraulic oil accounts for a fraction of the maintenance budget, investing in high quality hydraulic oil may not seem like a top priority for a plastics production plant. But the long-term savings can be significant when considered in light of Total Cost of Ownership (TCO): the total amount spent on industrial equipment, including both the cost of acquisition and of operation over its entire working life. To meet the demands of hydraulic systems and help better control TCO, Shell’s global team of technical experts works closely with leading original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the development of the Shell Tellus range of hydraulic oils. First introduced in 1947 to inhibit rust and oxidation, over the past 70 years the formulation has been enhanced to match changing hydraulic system designs and customer needs, offering: protection against wear oxidation resistance and thermal stability hydrolytic stability and filterability greater energy efficiency and less energy loss from hydraulic pumps. Reducing costs and improving energy efficiency Selecting the right lubricant, together with harnessing support from specialist technical services such as Shell LubeAnalyst and Shell LubeExpert, is critical for improving productivity and helping to realise significant TCO savings. It can also deliver energy savings and a resulting reduction in carbon emissions, which can contribute towards your company’s sustainability targets. The Critical Role of Hydraulic Oil Download our infographic to discover the four critical benefits that an effective hydraulic oil can have for your business. End-to-End Plastic Injection Moulding Solutions Learn how upgrading your maintenance solutions can help optimise your plastic injection moulding operation. Progress in Plastics Manufacturing Find out why digital advancements, such as robotics and sensors, mean the future of the plastics industry is truly in your hands. Collaborative Solutions Discover how we helped three plastics manufacturing leaders boost their business. Protecting Critical Systems Sludge and varnish pose critical threats to your operation. Overcome them with the protection that only a high-quality fluid can offer. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Delivering Best in Class Plastic Injection Moulding Maintenance Solutions Our end-to-end product and service offerings are designed to protect your business during times of uncertainty, boost your bottom line when the opportunity arises, and support your company in meeting its sustainability targets. Over the years, our technical expertise has helped to support: Alpla (Croatia), a world leader in plastic packaging solutions An upgrade to Shell Tellus S3 M extended the oil-drain Interval (ODI) of their plastic injection moulding from 5,000 to 15,000 hours. The implementation of Shell LubeAnalyst Oil Condition Monitoring (OCM) contributed to reduced equipment downtime and a lower overall maintenance budget. All of this resulted in annual savings of $16,500. Jász-Plastics (Hungary), a plastics producer supplying multinational companies Trialling Shell Tellus S4 ME 46, in conjunction with Shell LubeAnalyst OCM, resulted in $19,600 total savings. Achieved an average reduction in electric consumption of 9.5 per cent and overseeing a five-fold increase in oil lifespan. Retal (Lithuania), a plastics packaging company working with international beverage companies An ODI extension trial with Shell Tellus S3 M 46 and Shell LubeAnalyst resulted in a doubling of ODI from 8,000 to 16,000 hours, alongside decreased production losses. Overall maintenance savings totalled $54,500. The savings indicated are specific to the calculation dates and mentioned sites. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. End-to-End Plastic Injection Moulding Solutions Learn how upgrading your maintenance solutions can help optimise your plastic injection moulding operation. Progress in Plastics Manufacturing Find out why digital advancements, such as robotics and sensors, mean the future of the plastics industry is truly in your hands. Protecting Critical Systems Sludge and varnish pose critical threats to your operation. Overcome them with the protection that only a high-quality fluid can offer. Identifying Efficiencies Your hydraulic oil is capable of more than you might think. Choosing the right one could save you both time and money. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Moulding the Future of Manufacturing with Smart Solutions Plastic manufacturing has never been slow to integrate new technologies. Injection moulding is a prime example of how the sector uses these advancements to maximise the qualities that often dictate success: speed and precision. But with a number of exciting opportunities in play, it can be difficult to know which technologies should demand your investment. And the figures reflect this1, showing limited uptake by today’s manufacturers of: connected equipment (35%) sensors (41%) cloud-based technologies (41%) robotics (26%) The two main causes of this delay are that 61 per cent find it challenging to upskill workers to operate new technologies, while 75 per cent are reluctant to invest while current equipment is still operational1. Both of these views share a common misconception, by overlooking the potential benefits that new technologies can bring to current processes, such as improving production and saving costs. Take the following technologies, for example. All three can work to protect and upgrade your current processes: The Internet of Things (IoT) Connecting your current plant equipment through IoT technology can help to inform your efficiency, productivity and cost control decisions, while reducing the need for human-machine intervention. Sensors Integrating sensors into your set-up can help identify issues in real-time that may have otherwise gone under the radar. Anything from incorrect cavity pressure in moulds to degradation of hydraulic fluid could lead to costly downtime without early intervention. Robotics Robotics may require investment, but their growing list of capabilities –from unloading to assembling – mean that the benefits, such as improved quality, consistency and speed of production, can quickly pay back your initial outlay and more. 1 Survey commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, based on 350 interviews with Manufacturing sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to April 2018. Harnessing the Power of Industry 4.0 in Plastics What does the future hold for plastic injection moulding? Download our Industry 4.0 infographic to learn how technology can help to unlock progress. End-to-End Plastic Injection Moulding Solutions Learn how upgrading your maintenance solutions can help optimise your plastic injection moulding operation. Protecting Critical Systems Sludge and varnish pose critical threats to your operation. Overcome them with the protection that only a high-quality fluid can offer. Collaborative Solutions Discover how we helped three plastics manufacturing leaders boost their business. Identifying Efficiencies Your hydraulic oil is capable of more than you might think. Choosing the right one could save you both time and money. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Sludge and Varnish: The Hidden Productivity Killers of Injection Moulding Operations For plastic injection moulding, productivity is a priority. Any unplanned downtime caused by equipment breakdown impacts directly on your bottom line, placing delivery deadlines at risk and incurring costs from maintenance and unused labour. At the heart of these machines lies the hydraulic system, where hydraulic fluid plays a vital but often underestimated role, with between 50 and 70 per cent of mechanical failures related to ‘improper hydraulic fluid condition’, often as a result of sludge and varnish build-up1. Though most standard Oil Condition Monitoring (OCM) tests can help screen for problems such as ineffective corrosion protection, they cannot detect the build-up of sludge and varnish, because soft contaminants don’t typically impact the bulk chemistry of the hydraulic fluid, making them difficult to measure. Equipment failures can then occur, with the resulting unplanned downtime and necessary oil change impacting finances greatly. Additionally, short oil-drain intervals are expensive not only in terms of the oil cost but also oil waste costs. Poor-quality hydraulic fluids are more susceptible to this problem as they readily oxidise in the presence of yellow metals, water and air contamination. They also contain additives that are not thermally stable and so decompose at elevated temperatures. Avoiding unplanned downtime and unexpected costs The best way to avoid this is to use a high-quality hydraulic fluid which has high oxidation resistance and excellent thermal stability, helping to mitigate the risk of sludge and varnish build-up while lowering the operator’s Total Cost of Ownership2. The Shell Tellus range of hydraulic fluids has been specifically formulated to meet the demands of modern hydraulic systems by: resisting thermal and chemical breakdown providing enhanced reliability and system cleanliness mitigating breakdown risk and its associated costs. 1 Source: multiple surveys by industry bodies including additive companies, filter manufactures, hydraulic equipment manufacturers. One source includes Parker Hannifin GmbH Bulletin: HY30-3248/ UK: Hydraulic Fluids for Parker Axial Piston Pumps Series PV 2 Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on industrial equipment, including cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, including costs of lost production during equipment downtime Maintaining Peak Performance The three most important building blocks of success for plastic injection moulding operations? Download our infographic to find out. End-to-End Plastic Injection Moulding Solutions Learn how upgrading your maintenance solutions can help optimise your plastic injection moulding operation. Progress in Plastics Manufacturing Find out why digital advancements, such as robotics and sensors, mean the future of the plastics industry is truly in your hands. Collaborative Solutions Discover how we helped three plastics manufacturing leaders boost their business. Identifying Efficiencies Your hydraulic oil is capable of more than you might think. Choosing the right one could save you both time and money. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Don’t Just Prevent Breakdown, Perfect Uptime Downtime can be disastrous for a plastic injection moulding operation, but maintenance should not only be focused on preventing breakdowns. Doing so can cause optimisation to be overlooked, allowing equipment to run at suboptimal levels for extended periods of time. With businesses judged on high-quality output in the fastest possible cycle speed, the resulting long-term inefficiencies can be as damaging to your bottom line as total machine failure. Energy efficiency, too, is an area where proper lubrication can help. In doing so, it can help reduce the resulting carbon emissions, helping your company work towards your sustainability goals. Shell Lubricant Solutions provides the fluids and supporting services required to optimise equipment performance. Hydraulic Fluid Shell Tellus fluids are designed to provide robust protection for your hydraulic system and help you to reduce incidence of equipment failure. Greases The Shell Gadus range provides low-noise, high quality greases for your electric motors and bearings. Compressor Oils Explore our range of Shell Corena compressor oils, proven to help reduce your operational costs without compromising protection. Gear Oils Keep your gears turning with Shell Omala gear oils that meet the demands of the most advanced OEM gearbox designs. Shell LubeAnalyst Oil condition monitoring that enables you to continually track your equipment’s performance and use those insights to inform better maintenance decisions. Shell LubeChat Don’t let lubrication issues get out of hand. Use Shell LubeChat for instant, 24/7 access to Shell expertise, direct to your online device. Shell LubeAdvisor From office-based technical helpdesks to field-based lubrication engineers, our team of world class support staff is ready to help you choose the right products and improve lubrication processes. Shell LubeOptimiser An end-to-end solution designed to help companies address common challenges, such as simplifying operations, reducing downtime, and protecting equipment. Plastic Injection Moulding: 3 Tips For Unlocking Your Lubricant’s Potential Below are three top tips to help effectively select, apply and manage lubricant products, based on Shell’s decades of experience serving the worldwide plastics sector. #1: Understand The Value That Lubricants Offer Hydraulic systems are expected to deliver peak performance while operating amidst high pressures and fluctuating temperatures, so it pays to opt for product formulations with advanced protection and stability properties. While advanced lubrication can often have a premium price point, it is important to take a Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) approach to purchase, taking into account the long-term savings that they can help achieve by: reducing start-up times lowering energy consumption optimising cycle times. #2: Take Advantage of Lubricant-Related Services To support your lubricant selection and help keep your equipment running smoothly, Shell Lubricant Solutions offers lubricant-related services, including: Shell LubeChat – 24/7, on-demand technical expertise, direct to your digital device. Shell LubeAdvisors – A network of regional technical help desks and field-based lubrication engineers. Shell LubeAnalyst – An Oil Condition Monitoring (OCM) programme that provides a health check for your oil. #3: Don’t Overlook Staff Training and Upskilling With the right lubricant selected, companies need to ensure that they also have the right processes and practices in place to maximise its benefits. This includes implementing proper lubrication maintenance. The education and training of staff in terms of, for instance, extending oil-drain intervals and the correct handling and storage of oil in the plant, is crucial to this. As an end-to-end solutions provider, Shell Lubricant Solutions can help plug knowledge gaps through the Shell LubeCoach offering: a training course delivered in-person or through our e-learning portal, by technical experts who offer practical insights and best-practice techniques. End-to-End Plastic Injection Moulding Solutions Learn how upgrading your maintenance solutions can help optimise your plastic injection moulding operation. Products and Services Keep your systems running to spec with products and services that unlock equipment performance and energy efficiency. Case Study: Pilsa Plastics We helped extend this operation’s oil-drain intervals by 100 per cent. What could we do for yours? Lubricants for Plastic Injection Moulding Learn more about how we can support your plastic manufacturing operations. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Shell Lubricant Solutions Helps Extend Oil-Drain Intervals By 100% A comprehensive solution to boost operational performance. Challenge Pilsa Plastic Products Inc. is an industry leader in plastics technology and production capacity, based in Turkey. The company was experiencing poor performance from their existing compressor lubricant, with oil analysis confirming the oil’s unsatisfactory thermal and oxidation stability. As a result, oil drains were required every 5,000 hours, causing operational costs to be higher than necessary. Solution Having monitored and analysed the existing oil’s performance using the Shell LubeAnalyst Oil Condition Monitoring (OCM) programme, the Shell technical team recommended a change to Shell Corena S4 R 68, alongside handling and application training. Impact Using Shell Corena S4 R 68 helped to: reduce the company’s operational costs by 50 per cent double the oil-drain intervals, from 5,000 to 10,000 hours. When combined, the lower oil consumption, labour costs and oil waste – alongside improved maintenance practices – contributed to annual savings of $12,185. The savings indicated are specific to the calculation date and mentioned site. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. End-to-End Plastic Injection Moulding Solutions Learn how upgrading your maintenance solutions can help optimise your plastic injection moulding operation. Products and Services Keep your systems running to spec with products and services that unlock equipment performance and energy efficiency. 3 Tips for Optimising Your Lubrication Read our three-step plan for enhancing the power of lubrication in your plastic injection moulding business. Lubricants for Plastic Injection Moulding Learn more about how we can support your plastic manufacturing operations. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Top tips for enhancing the power of lubrication in your plastic injection moulding operationIn many plastic injection moulding operations, whether it’s producing large car bumpers or small DVD cases, the key priorities are repeatable: high-quality output in the fastest possible cycle speed. With machines often running continuously, any unplanned shutdown due to equipment failure is costly and detrimental to productivity. Lubrication is vital for these machines, particularly hydraulic fluid choice. As well as the protection of moving parts to help prolong equipment life, it also transmits power mechanically throughout the hydraulic system. However, not all technical managers are aware of its critical role in operations. In a survey carried out by Shell Lubricants, more than half of respondents didn’t have a clear understanding of how delayed or lost production, equipment availability or unplanned downtime can be influenced by their choice of lubricant1 . Below are four top tips to help effectively select, apply and manage lubricant products, based on Shell’s decades of experience serving the worldwide plastics sector. Top tip 1: Reconsider the importance of lubricants Today’s injection moulding machines face ever-increasing operational challenges from working harder and longer. Keeping your equipment at its peak performance is crucial yet suboptimal performance and even outright failures can often occur. Typical application challenges include corrosion, contamination, leaks, wear and formation of sludge and varnish, which can lead to issues such as blocked valves, filters and worn out pumps. These failures are often blamed on the equipment rather than the hydraulic fluid. However, multiple surveys conducted by hydraulic equipment manufacturers and other industry bodies have shown that 50% to 70% of equipment failures are related to ‘improper hydraulic fluid condition’2. It's easy to overlook the importance of hydraulic fluid, after all, it’s estimated that it represents less than 2% of the overall operating cost of an injection moulding plant1. However, the reality is that high performance lubrication can deliver significant long-term savings for businesses as enhanced equipment protection helps to mitigate risk of equipment breakdown and its associated costs. . The hydraulic fluid is the lifeblood of a hydraulic injection moulding machine. As well as doing its primary job of transmitting mechanical power, it should also serve to extend the life of the machine, reduce downtime and improve productivity and repeatable precision. Top tip 2: Understand which lubricant is best for your hydraulic system Hydraulic systems are expected to deliver peak performance while operating at high pressures, fluctuating temperatures and often in tough conditions. With such demands on lubricants, it pays to opt for product formulations with advanced protection and stability properties. Prioritising lubrication within a balanced maintenance strategy will help lower the total cost of ownership (TCO), for example through reduced start-up times, decreased energy consumption and optimised cycle times. Fast start-up time is important because it means the plastic injection moulding machine reaches optimal operating conditions more quickly. While advanced lubrication can often have a premium price point, it is important to take a total cost of ownership approach to purchase, taking into account the long-term savings that they can help achieve. For example, SMP, a leading global plastic processing company, producing automotive parts for several major German car manufacturers, switched to Shell Tellus S4 ME at its Neustadt plant in Germany, the company has achieved energy savings of 3.4%, shorter cycle times and doubled its oil drain interval (ODI) which has resulted in a total annual saving of over €50,6503. In a survey carried out by Shell Lubricants, more than half of respondents didn’t have a clear understanding of how delayed or lost production, equipment availability or unplanned downtime can be influenced by their choice of lubricant. Top tip 3: Take advantage of lubricant-related services from your provider To support the selection of the right lubricant to meet the challenges of hydraulic equipment, lubricant suppliers such as Shell Lubricants offer additional lubricant-related services to customers. Online tools include Shell LubeChat, which provides answers on demand to questions about oils and lubricants. For a complete service offering engineering, technical and application knowledge, customers can also make use of Shell LubeAdvisors and LubeAnalysts. The LubeAdvisor service is delivered through regional technical help desks and field-based lubrication engineers who will carry out a lubrication survey and plant assessments and offer customised lubrication and operations advice to help improve efficiency. To keep equipment running smoothly and to avoid maintenance costs, plastics production plants can also utilise Shell Lubricant’s oil condition monitoring service, Shell LubeAnalyst. Acting as an early warning system, customers can regularly monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant. A company that has benefited from its use of the Shell LubeAnalyst oil condition monitoring programme is Alpha, a world leader in the development and production of plastic packaging. Alpha wanted to extend the oil drain interval (ODI) on its Netstal-Maschinen AG plastic injection moulding machines in its Croatia plant. The company upgraded to Shell Tellus S3 M coupled with Shell LubeAnalyst. This resulted in an extended oil life from 5,000 to 15,000 hours, which helped reduce equipment downtime and led to a total annual saving of over USD$16,5004 . Top tip 4: Staff training and upskilling With the right lubricant selected, companies need to ensure that they have the right processes and practices in place to maximise its benefits. This includes implementing proper lubrication maintenance. The education and training of staff in terms of, for instance, extending oil drain intervals and the correct handling and storage of oil in the plant, is crucial to this. Again, Shell Lubricants can help through comprehensive training programmes. For instance, Shell LubeCoach is a workshop-based course delivered by technical experts who offer practical insights and best-practice techniques. Implementing these four tips within a plastic injection moulding operation can make a significant difference to your total cost of ownership (TCO). Investing in and maintaining high-quality hydraulic fluid may be seen by some as a nonessential expense: it’s after all just a fraction of a plant’s maintenance budget. But it could help contribute to savings far higher than the cost of the lubricant itself. 1 Unlocking the hidden potential of manufacturing: how lubricants can help increase productivity and reduce total cost of ownership. A study commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, polled 493 decision-makers in the manufacturing industry in eight countries (Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, India, Russia, the UK and the US) from November to December 2015 2 Multiple surveys by industry bodies including additive companies, filter manufactures, hydraulic equipment manufacturers. One source includes Parker Hannifin GmbH Bulletin: HY30-3248/ UK: Hydraulic Fluids for Parker Axial Piston Pumps Series PV 3 The savings indicated are specific to the calculation date and mentioned site. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. 4 The savings indicated are specific to the calculation date and mentioned site. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Contact us To find out more about how we can help you with your Total Cost of Ownership, download our industry specific whitepapers now. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. The productivity boost hiding in your hydraulic oilAsk any technical manager of a plastic injection moulding plant what their key challenges are, and productivity will no doubt be at the top of the list. To remain competitive, most must run their manufacturing highly efficiently in a 24/7 operation. There is no time for machine breakdowns and, if one does occur, often it’s blamed on a mechanical failure rather than poor lubrication. Lubricants play a vital role in helping to extend the life of plastic moulding machines. Indeed, in hydraulic injection moulding, the hydraulic oil is the lifeblood of the machine. Its primary purpose is to transmit power mechanically throughout the system. In so doing it is exposed to high pressure, fluctuations in temperature and various contaminants, such as water and air. This means that a good hydraulic oil should be able to cope with typical application challenges such as wear, corrosion, oil leaks, fluctuating temperature, oxidation and thermal breakdown, and build-up of varnish and sludge that could lead to blockages and malfunctioning valves and filters. Investing in high quality hydraulic oil may not seem like a top economic priority for a plastics production plant. Hydraulic oil is a fraction of the maintenance budget, but the long-term savings can be significant. When evaluating the effect of quality lubricants, consider total cost of ownership (TCO): the total amount spent on industrial equipment, including the cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, including costs of lost production during equipment downtime. “Multiple surveys conducted by hydraulic equipment manufacturers and other industry bodies have shown that 50% to 70% of failures in hydraulic equipment are linked to oil quality and oil cleanliness1 ,” says Ahmet Guven, Product Application Specialist for hydraulics and circulating oils at Shell Lubricants. “To be more productive and cost effective, customers have to choose the right hydraulic oil and keep it clean and cool to enable their equipment to run continuously.” Shell developed its Tellus range of hydraulic oils to meet the demands of hydraulic systems, offering protection against wear, oxidation resistance, thermal stability, hydrolytic stability and filterability. First introduced in 1947 to inhibit rust and oxidation, over the past 70 years the formulation of Tellus has been enhanced and improved to match changing hydraulic system design and customer needs. “Multiple surveys conducted by hydraulic equipment manufacturers and other industry bodies have shown that 50% to 70% of failures in hydraulic equipment are linked to oil quality and oil cleanliness ” More than 200 scientists and lubricants engineers are dedicated to developing innovative lubricants technology at a variety of Shell Lubricant research centres throughout the world. As the process of creating new formulations is highly complex, Shell works closely with leading original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), to understand the needs of equipment and performance requirements. The latest addition to the Shell Tellus range - Shell Tellus S2 MX – took 10 years to develop. It offers increased productivity, with extended oil life2 and outstanding system efficiency. Once rigorously tested in the lab, customer field trials are conducted to further validate its performance. For instance, AGI Freden GmbH, a Germany-based leader of plastic products that specialises in injection-moulded packaging solutions for DVDs and video games, has been running Shell Tellus S2 MX on its plastic moulding machines for the past few years. Before this, AGI Freden had been using Shell’s last generation Tellus S2 hydraulic oil for some 48,000 hours (six years) without a fluid change3 . “With Shell Lubricants, we have established a relationship that offers the same level that we expect from our own team members in terms of technical expertise, quick response and a very professional service. The optimal outcome of this trial with Shell Tellus S2 MX would be to increase the lifetime of the hydraulic fluid even further,” says Dieter Gottschalk, General Manager at AGI Freden. In addition to the right lubricant, Shell offers services to support customers in helping to reduce machinery downtime and maintenance costs. These include LubeAnalyst, a means of monitoring the oil quality in their hydraulic systems to help identify any potential problems at an early stage, and LubeExpert, a technical consultation service that offers application-specific knowledge. Selecting the right lubricant together with harnessing support from these specialist technical services from Shell Lubricants is a critical step in improving productivity and helping to realise significant TCO savings. 1 multiple surveys by industry bodies including additive companies, filter manufactures, hydraulic equipment manufacturers. One source includes Parker Hannifin GmbH Bulletin: HY30-3248/ UK: Hydraulic Fluids for Parker Axial Piston Pumps Series PV 2 Compared in ASTM D2272 RPVOT test where Tellus S2 MX and Tellus S3 M achieve 400 mins 3The savings indicated are specific to the calculation date and mentioned site. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Contact us To find out more about how we can help you with your Total Cost of Ownership, download our industry specific whitepapers now. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Sludge and varnish: the hidden productivity killers of injection moulding operationsPlastics injection moulding machines can be one of the most valuable assets to a manufacturing business. In an output-intensive industry, productivity is a priority and any unplanned downtime caused by equipment breakdown will impact directly on the manufacturer’s bottom line. Not only will customer delivery deadlines be at risk, but there is the added cost of machine repair along with expensive shift workers standing idle while this takes place. At the heart of these machines lies the hydraulic system with hydraulic fluid playing a vital but often underestimated role. As multiple surveys carried out by hydraulic equipment manufacturers and other industry bodies reveal, 50% to 70% of mechanical failures are related to ‘improper hydraulic fluid condition’. These failures can be as a result of a build-up of what are often called the ‘hidden killers’ of productivity - sludge and varnish. Gaining notoriety as the hidden killers, whilst most standard Oil Condition Monitoring (OCM) tests like Total Acid Number or Viscosity can help screen for problems such as ineffective corrosion-protection, helping to pre-empt hydraulic system failures, they cannot detect the build-up of sludge and varnish. The reason being that soft contaminants don’t typically impact the bulk chemistry of the hydraulic fluid making them difficult to measure. Equipment failures can then result from reduction of the spool-to-bore clearances in valves leading to valve malfunction, the clogging of a suction strainer that will lead to pump failure or damage to seals and o-rings leading to oil leaks and cylinder problems. "As multiple surveys carried out by hydraulic equipment manufacturers and other industry bodies reveal, 50% to 70% of mechanical failures are related to ‘improper hydraulic fluid condition’. These failures can be as a result of a build-up of what are often called the ‘hidden killers’ of productivity - sludge and varnish." The resulting unplanned repair downtime and oil change can have a financial impact on the manufacturer. Additionally, short oil drain intervals are costly not only in terms of the oil cost but also oil waste cost. Poor-quality hydraulic fluids are more susceptible to this problem as they readily oxidise in the presence of yellow metals, water and air contamination. In addition, they contain additives that are not thermally stable and so decompose at elevated temperatures. The best way to avoid this is to use a high-quality hydraulic fluid which has high oxidation resistance and excellent thermal stability helping to mitigate risk of sludge and varnish build up , lowering the operator’s total cost of ownership2 . Shell Lubricants’ Tellus range of hydraulic fluids has been specifically formulated to meet the demands of hydraulic systems by resisting thermal and chemical breakdown, which adversely affect a fluid’s lubricating performance. Shell Tellus can provide better reliability and system cleanliness compared to competitor products having achieved excellent results in the industry standard thermal stability test of hydraulic oils - ASTM D20703. This test method evaluates the thermal stability of a hydraulic oil in the presence of copper and steel at 135 °C. Many of Shell’s customers that operate plastics injection moulding machines have reaped the benefits of switching to the Shell Tellus range. For example, an electrical appliance manufacturer based in Jiangsu Province, China, which owns 13 plastics injection moulding machines, was experiencing problems caused by blocked filters. The Shell technical team investigated and discovered an excess formation of sludge, which meant that the oxidation stability and filterability performance of the machine’s hydraulic fluid was not effective. Switching to Shell Tellus S2 M 46, the company no longer experienced blocked filters and was also able to significantly extend the oil-drain interval from 8,000 to 24,000 hours. As a result, it reported total annual savings of USD$126,1404. This underlines how effective hydraulic fluids, like those in the Shell Tellus range, can provide equipment reliability and system cleanliness that in turn protects against these ‘hidden killers’ mitigating breakdown risk and its associated costs. 1 Source: multiple surveys by industry bodies including additive companies, filter manufactures, hydraulic equipment manufacturers. One source includes Parker Hannifin GmbH Bulletin: HY30-3248/ UK: Hydraulic Fluids for Parker Axial Piston Pumps Series PV 2 Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on industrial equipment, including cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, including costs of lost production during equipment downtime 3 *Test method ASTM D2070 was carried out under third-party laboratory conditions. Shell Tellus S2 MX 46 was tested against 17 competitor oils. Each oil was heated to 135 degrees Celsius for a period of 168 hours together with catalyst rods of copper and steel. The precipitated deposits were weighed, with weight loss recorded, along with total sludge and acid number change. Shell Lubricants is able to provide a copy of the ASTM D 2070 report on request. 4 The savings indicated are specific to the calculation date and mentioned site . These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. 5 Source: multiple surveys by industry bodies including additive companies, filter manufactures, hydraulic equipment manufacturers. One source includes Parker Hannifin GmbH Bulletin: HY30-3248/ UK: Hydraulic Fluids for Parker Axial Piston Pumps Series PV Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Contact us To find out more about how we can help you with your Total Cost of Ownership, download our industry specific whitepapers now. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Contact our experts Efficiency in the Plant and On the Road The automotive industry thrives on marginal gains. Discover the potential hiding in your own operations. 3 Ways E-Fluids Are Helping Auto Manufacturers Navigate your business through the e-mobility transition with E-Fluids designed for the future of our industry. Transmission Oils Shell Spirax oils are designed to help keep transmission components protected so that they can go on working efficiently. Electric Vehicle Fluids and Greases Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases are engineered specifically for the high-tech powertrains of electrified vehicles. Hydraulic Fluid Shell Tellus fluids are designed to provide robust protection for your hydraulic systems and help you to reduce incidence of equipment failure. Compressor Oils Shell Corena compressor oils are proven to help reduce your operational costs without compromising protection. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Discover More Solutions for Manufacturing Our lubricants and technical experts help manufacturing companies boost productivity, reduce downtime, and lower maintenance costs. Shell Lubricant Solutions homepage Our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services are designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Driving Efficiencies at Every Turn The automotive industry is accelerating at a rapid pace. While innovative designs and alternative fuels may take centre stage, businesses depend on reliable and high-quality automotive components to guarantee product performance. And to consistently deliver on these promises, automotive component manufacturers in turn need lubricants that introduce efficiency and cost savings to the process, every step of the way. Shell Lubricant Solutions works hand-in-hand with leading auto equipment manufacturers to ensure the products offered are geared up to enhance machine efficiency during production, extend vehicle mileage, and improve the vehicle’s energy efficiency. These long-standing collaborations have helped develop a deep understanding of industry challenges, from protecting profit margins to securing sustainability targets. Lubricants for Automotive Components Lubricants can be critical to your production efficiency and they’re often an integral component of your product. Discover how our range of lubricants can help introduce efficiency and cost savings to the process, every step of the way. Download the brochure Products and Services Whatever your current obstacles, overtake them with a portfolio of lubrication solutions that help deliver performance from start to finish. The Value of Industry Partnerships From the factory to the road, effective automotive manufacturing requires expertise at each stage of the journey. Discover the benefits of industry collaboration today. Merging Technology with Sustainability Learn how technology and sustainability can go hand-in-hand as you shift your operations to the next level. Supporting Auto and Truck Manufacturers As a business and technology partner, we can create a bespoke lubricants programme that is designed around your requirements. Find out more. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Discover More Solutions for Manufacturing Our lubricants and technical experts help manufacturing companies boost productivity, reduce downtime, and lower maintenance costs. Your Roadmap to Successful Automotive Operations The success of the automotive manufacturing industry is increasingly dependent on the balancing of two interlinked arenas: the world’s road networks, and the factory floor. Component manufacturers must strive for efficiency in both, to ensure business doesn’t stall. And though the outcomes of each are distinctly different, as are the products that they rely on, they both require maintenance that can ensure maximum: Efficiency – whether energy efficiency or fuel efficiency Productivity – in terms of output potential Protection – from wear, corrosion, and downtime or breakdown Explore our offerings and learn how Shell Lubricant Solutions can keep your automotive manufacturing business on track by protecting the components at the heart of your operations. Auto Fluids: Transmission Oils and E-fluids – Oils that are designed to decrease operating temperature and increase mechanical efficiency, providing a protected and reliable ride, whether for traditional or electric vehicles. Greases and E-Greases – High-quality greases for traditional vehicles and next-generation E-Greases for the high-tech powertrains of electrified vehicles. Thermal Fluids – E-thermal fluids that are specially formulated to cool your electric vehicle’s battery, meaning reduced risk of battery degradation and increased component lifetime. Engine oils - Shell Helix Fully Synthetic Motor Oils are made from natural gas and designed to provide superior protection against engine stress and wear, for ultimate engine performance. Factory Equipment Lubricants: Hydraulic Fluids – Put a stop to energy loss from your hydraulic pumps with fluids built on gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Compressor Oils – Choose long oil life. Choose high system efficiency. Choose an oil that has been developed in close co-operation with customers and equipment makers. Gear Oils – Your factory depends on uninterrupted operation. Make sure your gears keep turning with an oil that extends your oil-drain intervals. Lubrication Services: Our complete toolkit of services is designed to put you in control: make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis, gain knowledge through our training programmes and get access to expert advice. Find out more at the links below, or contact our experts today. *Performance data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods. Transmission Oils Shell Spirax oils are designed to help keep transmission components protected so that they can go on working efficiently. Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Electric Vehicle Fluids and Greases Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases are engineered specifically for the high-tech powertrains of electrified vehicles. Hydraulic Fluid Shell Tellus fluids are designed to provide robust protection for your hydraulic system and help you to reduce incidence of equipment failure. Compressor Oils Shell Corena compressor oils are proven to help reduce your operational costs without compromising protection. Gear Oils Keep your gears turning with Shell Omala gear oils that meet the demands of the most advanced OEM gearbox designs. Shell LubeAdvisor Expert advice delivered through highly experienced technical staff, with a tiered portfolio of services for businesses of any size. Shell LubeAnalyst Stay ahead of the curve with oil condition monitoring that acts as an early warning system to help keep your operations online. Shell LubeCoach Upskill your team and upgrade your maintenance, with in-depth lubrication training delivered through a series of customisable modules. Shell LubeVideoCheck Step into the factory of the future by using our sophisticated fibre optic tool to non-invasively inspect the inner workings of your equipment. Like many industries, sustainability and technology are two key concerns for the automotive components sector. First, how can the manufacturing process become more sustainable and its finished products more efficient? And second, how can technology help you to achieve both? The answer may lie in your maintenance strategy, particularly the role that lubrication plays. Sustainability in Automotive Manufacturing When it comes to the efficiency of your facility, a lot can be gained by selecting the right lubricant. Whereas time, energy and money can be lost by persevering with a lubricating oil that is not meeting the requirements of your operation, especially when facing a constant battle to reduce downtime and increase production. And this carries through to the finished product too, with consumers demanding greater fuel economy from their vehicles. All of which points to a lubrication solution that can maximise energy efficiency on the line and fuel efficiency in the lane. Especially as we transition towards greater e-mobility, where solutions such as Shell’s E-Fluids and E-Greases will help to meet a broad range of engineering and performance requirements. Automotive Manufacturing Technology Technology plays a crucial role in increasing energy efficiency, helping businesses to meet sustainability targets at each step of the industrial journey. For those working with automotive components, this technology often takes the form of robotics: industrial robot systems whose automated and programmable capabilities can generate efficiencies throughout the production line. However, to consistently perform at its peak, robotic machinery must be effectively maintained. Next level grease technology, as demonstrated by Shell Gadus S4 V80XE 00*, is: Designed to improve lubricating performance in industrial robot systems Optimised to sustain precision and enhance reliability Formulated to require reduced maintenance and extended rotary vector (RV) drive service life *Shell Gadus S4 V80XE 00 performance data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods. Next level grease technology for robotic arms See how our greases help protect high-tech robotics equipment. Download the brochure End-to-End Automotive Components Solutions Deliver performance on the line and in the lanes, with lubrication solutions for your finished products and your factory. Products and Services Whatever your current obstacles, overtake them with a portfolio of lubrication solutions that help deliver performance from start to finish. The Value of Industry Partnerships From the factory to the road, effective automotive manufacturing requires expertise at each stage of the journey. Discover the benefits of industry collaboration today. Equipment Protection That Goes the Extra Mile Your automotive components need protecting to perform at their peak. You need a lubricant that can handle the pressure. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Discover More Solutions for Manufacturing Our lubricants and technical experts help manufacturing companies boost productivity, reduce downtime, and lower maintenance costs. Lubricants Designed to Deliver Performance Under Pressure From the factory floor to frenetic freeways, automotive components are exposed to a lot of pressures throughout their lifetime. Which is why, from start to finish, adequate component protection is vital. This means extending the lifespan of parts that sit in critical areas of the finished automotive, as well as protecting the equipment operating on your production line. Protecting Component Lifetime The automotive components that make up the vehicles you produce demand protection in order to perform. They demand protection from the high-pressure and high-temperature operating environments that they are consistently exposed to, ensuring the vehicle in question can perform effectively and efficiently at the peak of its potential. Solutions in this field are similarly varied, with a range of options available that help translate component protection into vehicle performance and efficiency, such as: Innovative initial-fill lubricants for automotive drivelines, chassis, interiors and bodies Greases to protect bearings from extreme temperatures, heavy loads and contaminated conditions Thermal fluids to help cool vital components such as the battery in an electric vehicle Protecting Equipment Performance Efficiency. Productivity. Uptime. All vital markers of success in the automotive manufacturing field, but none are possible without the correct equipment protection. And driving this protection are your fluids, oils and greases: Hydraulic fluids that can improve hydraulic system efficiency through the latest synthetic, ashless technology Compressor oils that deliver optimum value to your operation with enhanced wear protection and long oil life High-quality greases that offer reliable performance for both standard and specialist applications, including robotics *Performance data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods. End-to-End Automotive Components Solutions Deliver performance on the line and in the lanes, with lubrication solutions for your finished products and your factory. Products and Services Whatever your current obstacles, overtake them with a portfolio of lubrication solutions that help deliver performance from start to finish. The Value of Industry Partnerships From the factory to the road, effective automotive manufacturing requires expertise at each stage of the journey. Discover the benefits of industry collaboration today. 3 Ways E-Fluids Are Helping Auto Manufacturers Navigate your business through the e-mobility transition with E-Fluids designed for the future of our industry. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Discover More Solutions for Manufacturing Our lubricants and technical experts help manufacturing companies boost productivity, reduce downtime, and lower maintenance costs. The automotive industry is an international enterprise and so effective automotive component manufacture requires global collaboration. With so many moving parts at every step of the process, partnerships can be a vital tool for companies that are feeling over-stretched and under-capacity. But partnerships are only effective if they can help bridge gaps, connect dots, and strengthen areas that were previously limiting potential. Products Built on Expertise As a truly international organisation, Shell Lubricant Solutions has experts in the lubrication of critical equipment based in more than 90 countries worldwide. All of whom contribute to the delivery of our high-quality fluids, covering: Initial-fill lubricants for automotive drivelines, chassis, interiors, bodies and bearings Oils and greases for automotive manufacturing processes Extender oils for rubber and tyre manufacture Calibration test fluids Alongside products you can rely on, our experts can help to provide and implement lubrication plans that are designed to unlock manufacturing potential. Our varied experience of working alongside automotive businesses makes us perfectly placed to engage in joint product development, helping to design a specialised lubricant for your specific requirements. Products Backed by Experts And because lubricants are so critical for the protection and performance of automotive components, we work with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), like BMW and Hyundai, to ensure our products are formulated for peak performance. In fact, our long-standing relationships with OEMs have led to more than 3,000 cases of our products being approved or meeting the specifications of equipment manufacturers or automotive suppliers. So, whether it’s new additions to our existing portfolios, such as Shell Helix and Shell Rimula, or breakthroughs in areas like hydrogen and E-Fluids, our solutions can help you protect your current operations, while steering you towards the energy mix of the future. Supporting Auto and Truck Manufacturers As a business and technology partner, we can create a bespoke lubricants programme that is designed around your requirements. Find out more. End-to-End Automotive Components Solutions Deliver performance on the line and in the lanes, with lubrication solutions for your finished products and your factory. Products and Services Whatever your current obstacles, overtake them with a portfolio of lubrication solutions that help deliver performance from start to finish. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Discover More Solutions for Manufacturing Our lubricants and technical experts help manufacturing companies boost productivity, reduce downtime, and lower maintenance costs. Boosting Reliability and Efficiency with Effective Lubrication Whether it’s the finished vehicles or the factory production line, two key qualities are central to the operations of automotive component manufacturers: reliability and efficiency. Both ladder up to overall productivity and both can be enhanced by effective lubrication. Lubrication on the Road To perform reliably, the finished automotive product requires high-quality lubrication. While operating on the road, the internal components of vehicles experience demanding conditions, including extreme temperatures and pressures that expose parts to the damaging effects of friction. Enter lubrication. A suitable, high-quality lubricant – whether transmission oil, thermal fluids, or greases and E-greases – can dramatically reduce these effects by: Protecting components from wear and corrosion Enabling vehicles to maintain energy efficiency Preventing contamination that can limit performance Getting component lubrication right from first-fill can make a lasting difference to the efficiency of the vehicle on the road. Lubrication in the Factory Lubrication also plays an important role within the factory walls. If productivity drops in the factory, whether due to unexpected equipment downtime, inefficient processes or inadequate management, the ramifications can be disastrous. And with robotics playing an increasingly prominent role in today’s manufacturing plants, emerging lubricant and grease technology must be able to safeguard equipment productivity by providing: Load carrying and wear prevention Protection against vibration damage Friction reduction Oil leakage avoidance But fluid selection is just the first step in the maintenance process. For extended performance, it must then be accompanied by expert services, like oil condition monitoring such as Shell LubeAnalyst, which adds value by: Identifying potential oil or equipment failures before becoming critical Extending lubricant life and thus reducing change-out downtimes and procurement costs Reducing risks and contributing to safe and reliable operations *Performance data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods. End-to-End Automotive Components Solutions Deliver performance on the line and in the lanes, with lubrication solutions for your finished products and your factory. Products and Services Whatever your current obstacles, overtake them with a portfolio of lubrication solutions that help deliver performance from start to finish. Equipment Protection That Goes the Extra Mile Your automotive components need protecting to perform at their peak. You need a lubricant that can handle the pressure. Merging Technology with Sustainability Learn how technology and sustainability can go hand-in-hand as you shift your operations to the next level. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Discover More Solutions for Manufacturing Our lubricants and technical experts help manufacturing companies boost productivity, reduce downtime, and lower maintenance costs. With the rise of hybrid and electric vehicles (EVs), the automotive industry is going through one of the most profound shifts in its history. See how the development of E-Fluid technologies are helping OEMs keep up to speed. 1. Testing to Ensure Effective Engineering Because the e-mobility industry is still developing, there is far less uniformity across hybrid and EV powertrains; electric motor design is unique to each OEM, which makes engineering E-fluids challenging. Working alongside OEMs, Shell Lubricant Solutions has engineered fluids that meet a range of requirements, suitable for both the newer, wet e-motors and earlier dry e-motor models. We’ve done this by employing screening methods, such as: Copper wire corrosion testing High-speed foaming testing State-of-the-art technology for high-speed driveline test rigs 2. Addressing EV-Specific Pain Points For wet e-motors, fluid needs to do two essential jobs at once: lubricate the gearbox and cool the electric motor. And copper compatibility is the all-important factor here. These motors need a fluid that works quickly enough for proper gear protection, which requires additives to facilitate that process. But those same additives can corrode copper, a potentially serious problem in e-motor windings — especially when fluid is filled for life. Therefore, fluids need the proper chemistry to balance these needs. So, Shell Lubricant Solutions has engineered e-fluids that provide: Friction protection for gearboxes Thermal protection for motors Superior copper compatibility Enhanced electrical characteristics 3. Plotting a Path for Future Product Generations As OEMs design more compact motors, there are higher rotational speeds to contend with. This means that more EVs will need transmissions to manage higher RPMs. But the high-stress environment of these transmissions can expose them to air and cause fluids to foam, meaning they lose their ability to protect component surfaces. This is another area where new-generation E-fluids from Shell Lubricant Solutions stand up to technical requirements. And as we look to the future of e-mobility, Shell will work with OEMs on new cooling technologies for EV batteries that will better enable the fast charging technologies of tomorrow. Electric Vehicle Fluids and Greases Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases are engineered specifically for the high-tech powertrains of electrified vehicles. Supporting Auto and Truck Manufacturers As a business and technology partner, we can create a bespoke lubricants programme that is designed around your requirements. Find out more. End-to-End Automotive Components Solutions Deliver performance on the line and in the lanes, with lubrication solutions for your finished products and your factory. Products and Services Whatever your current obstacles, overtake them with a portfolio of lubrication solutions that help deliver performance from start to finish. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and reduce downtime. Discover More Solutions for Manufacturing Our lubricants and technical experts help manufacturing companies boost productivity, reduce downtime, and lower maintenance costs. Shell Robotic Gear Oil Discover how these high-performance synthetic lubricants can provide an oil-drain interval in excess of 24,000 hours of service, no matter your operating temperature. Shell RV Grease Formulated specifically for RV reducers, Shell Gadus greases help control the friction regime of bearings, so you can increase your equipment lifetime. Shell LubeAdvisor Improve your operations with on-site assistance from lubrication experts, and watch as unplanned downtime and unexpected breakdowns become a thing of the past. Shell LubeAnalyst Get inside the mind of your machines by using an oil condition monitoring service that continually assesses the health of your in-service oil. Shell LubeOptimiser From initial fill to filtration, dehydration to reclamation, Shell LubeOptimiser is an end-to-end solution that targets your most common maintenance issues. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Robotics Are Running the Factory, But What’s Running Them? Industrial robots are transforming the manufacturing landscape, one process at a time. But because general manufacturing is a highly diversified and intricate industry, its subsectors, equipment, applications and operating conditions are both complex and varied. This has a knock-on effect for the robotic solutions that are trying to disrupt the current landscape, making them potentially difficult to operate and costly to run. However, the advantages robotics can bring to an operation – maximising output, while minimising impact – are exactly what the industry is in need of given the increasing pressure to ensure businesses are run as sustainably as possible. But just how do industrial robots benefit manufacturers? Predominantly, it’s through improved: Accuracy – Greater automation can ensure more precise processes Efficiency – Complex functions become simpler, more consistent and faster Safety – Removes the need for human interaction among confined or hazardous spaces But even robots need looking after. Thankfully, effective lubrication can help connect the dots between potential and productivity, especially for industrial robots that require lubricant changes or oil and grease exchanges during their lifecycle. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. How to Assemble Effective Robotics Maintenance Whether you’ve only recently integrated industrial robots into your operation or you’re simply looking to finetune existing machinery, the correct equipment lubrication and servicing should be at the top of your to-do list. After all, there’s little point in investing in Industry 4.0 technologies like robotics, only to waste that potential by not putting the right maintenance practices in place. But because robotics tend to be highly specialised pieces of equipment, their component care can require a shift in gears from your general maintenance approach. To make this process as smooth as possible, Shell Lubricant Solutions provides manufacturing operators with a portfolio of robotics gear oils and greases, alongside complementary maintenance services, that are designed to save you time, money and stress. Discover our full portfolio of products: Shell Robotic Gear Oil – Discover how these high-performance synthetic lubricants can provide an oil-drain interval in excess of 24,000 hours of service, no matter your operating temperature. Shell RV Grease – Formulated specifically for RV reducers, Shell Gadus greases help control the friction regime of bearings, so you can increase your equipment lifetime. Shell HD Grease – If your robotic equipment includes Harmonic Drive reducers, choose a HD grease that is specially focused on film strength to better protect gears. Discover our full portfolio of services: Shell LubeAdvisor – Improve your operations with on-site assistance from lubrication experts, and watch as unplanned downtime and unexpected breakdowns become a thing of the past. Shell LubeAnalyst – Get inside the mind of your machines by using an oil condition monitoring service that continually assesses the health of your in-service oil. Shell LubeOptimiser – From initial fill to filtration, dehydration to reclamation, Shell LubeOptimiser is an end-to-end solution that targets your most common maintenance issues. Transforming Manufacturing with Industry 4.0 and Robotics Watch as two Shell Lubricant Solutions experts dissect the robotics innovations that are transforming manufacturing, and explain how Shell products and services can help you take advantage of them. Production Potential From robotics to sensors, see why the manufacturing sector is witnessing an increase in the adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies. Protecting Performance Integrating robots into your operation can help protect your staff, but only if you protect the equipment first. Learn the basics of robotics maintenance today. Making the Future Robotics may seem like technology fit for the future, but how do we ensure it’s set up to solve manufacturers’ most pressing current issues? Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Industrial Robots: Balancing Output with Input Productivity. The rate of output per unit of input, and a measurement that goes a long way to defining the success of a business operating within the manufacturing industry. As the digital transformation of the industry accelerates, productivity is a term that is coming under greater scrutiny, with fewer places for inefficiencies to hide. Part of this transition involves the increasing adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies – that is, technologies which support the digitalisation and automation of manufacturing operations. And the level of uptake shows no sign of slowing down. In fact, it is estimated that 80% of manufacturing sector staff use at least one Industry 4.0 technology in their operations today.1 Why? Because they understand the benefits that these technologies can have on their business: 31% believe 4.0 technologies could extend equipment life by 10% or more2 62% believe they could reduce maintenance costs by 5% or more3 However, various obstacles threaten to bottleneck their true potential, including: an unskilled worker pool; reluctance to invest until current equipment breaks down; and a lack of support from either senior staff or third-party experts. However, evidence points towards a clearer business case for integrating Industry 4.0 technologies – and particularly industrial robots – sooner rather than later, providing high-quality lubrication is used to counteract risks like suboptimal performance or unplanned downtime. How robotics is helping to cut costs and reduce impact Since manufacturing businesses often depend on creating economies at scale to ensure operations remain profitable, anything that can contribute towards a more streamlined process is welcomed with open arms. Robotics advancements can do just this, allowing operators to leverage automated processes, like industrial 3D printing, to produce specialised products quickly and locally. Doing so helps reduce the overheads associated with larger factory productions, while retaining product quality and reducing environmental impact. How sensor technology is helping to protect uptime With so many moving parts in play, manufacturing sites rely on effective communication throughout the production line. Digitalisation has made this a much easier job, largely thanks to more effective data recording and transfer, especially since cloud computing has become a viable option for operators. The next step for many is to continue building out this Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), which is where sensor technology comes in. When attached to industrial equipment – such as robotic arms – these sensors can help identify potential issues before they even occur. As a result, operators benefit from greater control over their schedule servicing, while some have experienced overall equipment effectiveness improvements of up to 9%.4 1 Shell. “Expertise Gap and Lubrication Issues Hamper Adoption of Industry 4.0 Among Manufacturers.” 2 This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 353 interviews with Manufacturing sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to May 2018. For more information, please visit www.edelmanintelligence.com 3 This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 353 interviews with Manufacturing sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to May 2018. For more information, please visit www.edelmanintelligence.com 4 Robert Schmid. “Industrial IoT: How Connected Things are Changing Manufacturing.” GE Digital. https://www.ge.com/digital/blog/industrial-iot-how-connected-things-are-changing-manufacturing 5 This study commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by independent research firm Edelman Intelligence, polled 493 decision-makers in the manufacturing industry in eight countries (Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, India, Russia, the UK and the US) from November to December 2015. Products and Services Industrial robots are making manufacturing smarter, but it’s maintenance that allows them to work harder. Browse our industry-leading greases, oils and services. Protecting Performance Integrating robots into your operation can help protect your staff, but only if you protect the equipment first. Learn the basics of robotics maintenance today. Making the Future Robotics may seem like technology fit for the future, but how do we ensure it’s set up to solve manufacturers’ most pressing current issues? Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. The Importance of Safeguarding Man and Machine In the world of manufacturing, industrial robots have been helping to lower costs and speed up processes for years. But as their capabilities develop, it is not just productivity gains that automated equipment is contributing – robotics is helping to make operations a whole lot safer too. Whether it’s by performing tasks that would traditionally pose an immediate danger to human employees or by protecting the integrity of industrial processes through greater accuracy and reliability, robotics is quickly proving its business worth throughout the manufacturing industry. To get to this point however, the equipment itself also needs adequate protection, which is where lubricant management comes in to play. Protecting equipment performance Like human workers, many industrial robots are made up of a collection of joints, or more specifically, axes. The number and makeup of these axes determine the range of movement each robot possesses, which therefore has a say in which tasks they can perform while in the factory or on the production line. For example, a robot with six axes is most able to replicate the movement of a human arm, due to its ability to move in three separate planes as well as various positions – functionality that makes it perfect for many manufacturing tasks. However, the advantages of multiple axes are offset by their susceptibility to breakdowns should the incorrect maintenance practices be employed throughout their lifetime. This can lead to costly, unplanned downtime that risks negating the benefits of the initial investment, not to mention the potential bottlenecking of production and subsequent missed deadlines. Fortunately, for RV applications in particular, the right grease can reduce these risks by helping to: Improve lubricating performance Maintain equipment precision and reliability Reduce maintenance and extend service life And since operating environments are becoming increasingly demanding, Shell Gadus S4 V80XE 00 has been tested under real-world conditions against typical operational challenges, including: Load – High loads can cause surface contact, leading to wear and eventual grease and surface breakdown Wear – Friction not only causes wear and tear, but it slows down processes, demanding greater energy use and higher costs Torque – Adequate torque testing ensures critical parts will not loosen or rotate unnecessarily Start/stop – Frequent start-stop motions generate vibration that can be difficult to protect against Leakage – Oil loss is a serious challenge because of grease thickening or additive loss Environment – Both extreme low temperatures and wet, humid environments can hinder performance significantly Rust – Harsh conditions or insufficient lubrication can lead to corrosion and potentially breakdowns Robotics manufacturing in operation The second piece to this puzzle is robotics ability to protect the health and wellbeing of employees, helping to address the “human exposure bottleneck” by allowing staff to work at a safer distance while retaining or enhancing process integrity. And indeed, the increasing adoption of industrial robots is not a story of human replacement, but one of co-creation and collaboration. Despite an early notion that industrial robots were likely to replace entire human workforces, manufacturing sectors have shown that a model of collaborative robotics is perhaps the most realistic and productive. In fact, the power of Big Data and intelligent control systems means that human-robot collaboration is more common than ever. As a result, industrial robots are taking over when their automated advantages can protect employees from the likelihood of repetitive stress injuries or the risk of major impairment. While a steady improvement in sensor technology – and its affordability – means potentially dangerous maintenance tasks can now be performed remotely. All of which points towards a future where man and machine can productively – and safely – co-exist. Products and Services Industrial robots are making manufacturing smarter, but it’s maintenance that allows them to work harder. Browse our industry-leading greases, oils and services. Making the Future Robotics may seem like technology fit for the future, but how do we ensure it’s set up to solve manufacturers’ most pressing current issues? Assembling Partnerships Whether it’s sharing ideas at a conference or testing them in the lab, robotics are built on collaboration. See how Shell is keeping this cooperative spirit alive. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Wind Power Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Robotics: Tomorrow’s Technology, Today’s Solution? Robotics may be an exciting topic of conversation for those of us on the outside, but ultimately, the priority for manufacturing operators is whether – and to what extent – it can help to improve their key business drivers, whether that is productivity, sustainability or cost control. And while some of the benefits are clear, there is still widespread wariness throughout the industry, as shown by the fact that, among manufacturing decision-makers: 75% are reluctant to invest in new technologies while current equipment is operational1 65% think the costs associated with Industry 4.0 investment outweigh the benefits2 56% feel there is a lack of trusted third-party experts to provide support3 These are all undoubtedly valid concerns given the relatively early stages that some of these technologies are currently at, robotics included. It is therefore the responsibility of companies like Shell to push the field forward through increased awareness, development and accessibility. Achieving sustainable production Because sustainability is now top of mind for almost every manufacturer, one particular area of focus for Shell when it comes to industrial robots, is advancing their growing sustainability credentials. After all, many subsectors of general manufacturing are perceived as some of the most carbon-intensive and energy-consuming industries across society. But how can robotics help to reduce your business’ environmental impact? Apart from the obvious efficiency gains, it is what’s inside your industrial robots that can really help to make a meaningful difference on energy consumption and emissions output. After all, lubricants play a vital role in keeping the world moving and machinery operating efficiently. And as industrial production increases, there is a growing need to balance this with the environmental impact of the lubricants in service. Avoiding emissions – By optimising the efficiency of our production process and product design, and by aiming to embed circular economy thinking at the heart of our lubricants business Reducing emissions – By improving the energy efficiency of our facilities and increasing the use of renewable energy to help reduce the CO2e emissions of our supply chain Offsetting emissions – Until avoid and reduce measures can be deployed at scale, offsetting remaining emissions of our premium products through Shell’s nature-based solutions For robotics specifically, Shell products offer extended oil life and additional protection to equipment. In doing so, they help manufacturers reduce the frequency of oil or component exchange, therefore reducing CO2 emissions throughout the lifecycle of equipment. When it comes to sustainability, the practice of collaboration spans across the entire manufacturing ecosystem. Shell’s industry expertise and experience of working with manufacturers globally means we can provide support and solutions that address business’ top environmental challenges, from supplying carbon neutral products and renewable energy to improving equipment performance and energy efficiency. The Robotics Centre of Excellence But a more sustainable future involving robotics is only possible if operators are aware and informed of the choices available to them. So, to help accelerate this transition to a more data-rich, automated and sustainable future, Shell has established a Robotics Centre of Excellence, offering in-house expertise to all businesses. The centre’s initial role is to help businesses decide whether a robotics solution is the right fit for them, by leveraging the expertise of Shell’s robotics teams – in collaboration with vendors – to develop and introduce robotic solutions that solve specific business needs, such as: How to effectively reduce operational costs Where to find the right industry and sector-specific collaborations How best to engage with the market and wider robotic community Digitalisation and robotics are changing how the industry works, so the Robotics Centre of Excellence is a way of helping businesses to embrace these changes in a pragmatic and risk-managed way. And this goes for both Shell customers and our own internal teams – just take a look below at how robotics has revolutionised the work of the Shell Catalysts & Technologies team. 1 This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 353 interviews with Manufacturing sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to May 2018. For more information, please visit www.edelmanintelligence.com 2 This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 353 interviews with Manufacturing sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to May 2018. For more information, please visit www.edelmanintelligence.com 3 This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 353 interviews with Manufacturing sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to May 2018. For more information, please visit www.edelmanintelligence.com Products and Services Industrial robots are making manufacturing smarter, but it’s maintenance that allows them to work harder. Browse our industry-leading greases, oils and services. 5 Reasons Lubrication is Important for Industrial Robots Discover the five key ways in which effective lubrication can help shift your robotic equipment up a gear. Assembling Partnerships Whether it’s sharing ideas at a conference or testing them in the lab, robotics are built on collaboration. See how Shell is keeping this cooperative spirit alive. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Making Progress Through Partnerships No industry transformation ever happens in isolation and the same can be said for the advancement of robotics. Collaboration – both across manufacturing and cross-sector – will be critical for the continued development and deployment of industrial robots. Therefore, operators, lubricant suppliers, OEMs and technology companies must work together to share ideas and test technologies, if manufacturers are to get the most from robotic technologies. Real-world robotics trials The sharing of ideas must then be met with the testing of technologies. Alongside a leading RV OEM, Shell conducted a complex testing programme under real-life operating conditions, to ensure that Shell Gadus V80XE 00 was a suitable grease for RV applications. Benchmarking the Shell Gadus grease against a well-recognised competitor product, the pair of greases were tested: on RV types from various OEMs; against higher loads than normal to accelerate testing outcome; and under non-stop operation for extended periods. Pushing the grease to these limits helps ensure that manufacturing operators can consistently rely on the product meeting their own operational needs, day after day. Ultimately, the testing proved that Shell Gadus S4 V80XE 00: Extends RV service life significantly Enables longer relubrication intervals Runs at a lower temperature Reduces iron contamination Products and Services Industrial robots are making manufacturing smarter, but it’s maintenance that allows them to work harder. Browse our industry-leading greases, oils and services. 5 Reasons Lubrication is Important for Industrial Robots Discover the five key ways in which effective lubrication can help shift your robotic equipment up a gear. Making the Future Robotics may seem like technology fit for the future, but how do we ensure it’s set up to solve manufacturers’ most pressing current issues? Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Whether your industrial robot is involved in material handling, assembly or dispensing, over time it can become exposed to the effects of wear and corrosion. This is a result of the extensive movement that robots perform each and every day, often for longer periods of time than any human employee would be expected to operate for. With so much continued stress placed upon the equipment, it’s only natural for there to be consequences. However, effective lubrication can go a long way to negating the impact of these effects, making it a vital part of your robotics maintenance. In fact, the right grease or oil can do more than you perhaps think: A good grease or oil lubricates well under high loads, ensuring the robot in question is not only able to perform at its peak, but can do so consistently over a long period of time. High loads and demanding conditions can cause surface contact over time, leading to wear. The right grease or oil will protect against vibration damage, friction and grease ageing, which can all cause unplanned stoppages. Whether it’s caused by oil leakage, downtime or energy wastage, underperforming robotics can quickly become a drain on the bottom line. A quality lubricant, with the right protective properties, can help combat these issues before they become critical. Precision is king for many manufacturing sectors, which is why robotics is such a game-changing development. However, every industrial robot needs a lubricant that can regulate temperatures and loads in order to maintain this precision over the long term. A higher-performing grease or oil means extended service life and longer lubrication intervals. Both of which translate to less physical waste and manual maintenance, meaning a more streamlined and sustainable operation. Products and Services Industrial robots are making manufacturing smarter, but it’s maintenance that allows them to work harder. Browse our industry-leading greases, oils and services. Making the Future Robotics may seem like technology fit for the future, but how do we ensure it’s set up to solve manufacturers’ most pressing current issues? Assembling Partnerships Whether it’s sharing ideas at a conference or testing them in the lab, robotics are built on collaboration. See how Shell is keeping this cooperative spirit alive. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. COVID-19 Advice for General ManufacturingFind out how effective lubrication maintenance can help businesses to maximise equipment reliability and reduce costs as they enter the recovery phase and beyond, with insights from Shell Lubricant Solutions experts. Storage advice for Electric Motors Short-term and long-term advice on how to protect and store your Electric Motor during idle periods. Restarting Electric Motors Step-by-step guide to restarting your Electric Motor after storage. Infographic: Protecting Rotary Screw Air Compressors Step-by-step guide to protecting and prolonging the lifespan of your Rotary Screw Air Compressor. Infographic:Protecting Gearboxes Step-by-step guide to protecting and prolonging the lifespan of your Gearbox. Infographic:Protecting Hydraulic Systems Step-by-step guide to protecting and prolonging the lifespan of your Hydraulic System. Infographic: Protecting Automated Lubrication Systems Step-by-step guide to protecting and prolonging the lifespan of your Automated Lubrication System. Whitepaper: Controlling lubricant contamination and protecting equipment performance Advice on how to identify lubricant contamination to protect equipment lifespan and reduce costs. Whitepaper: Protecting uptime and reducing Total Cost of Ownership Advice on why a robust TCO program is essential to avoid unexpected downtime and expensive repairs. Gear oils Explore Shell’s range of gear oils to see how you can prolong asset life, prevent breakdowns and increase the efficiency of your machinery. Gear oils, Shell Omala Compressor oils Whatever your technical needs and operational conditions, explore our range of compressor oils to discover how Shell can help you get the most from your equipment investment. Compressor oils, Shell Corena Greases The longer your grease lasts, the longer your components last, and the less lubrication maintenance for your equipment. With a full product range of Shell Gadus greases, you can select the grease to best meet your needs. Greases oils, Shell Gadus Hydraulic fluids Find out how Shell hydraulic fluids can maintain or even improve the efficiency of your hydraulic systems with the latest synthetic, ashless technology. Hydraulic fluids, Shell Tellus Slideways oils You can reduce maintenance costs and lost production time by choosing a higher quality slideway oil from Shell’s range. Slideways oils, Shell Tonna Automotive components Whether you want to cut maintenance costs or to enhance vehicle or component efficiency with innovative lubricants, we have a wide range of automotive component manufacturing lubricants to meet your needs. General Manufacturing Total Cost of Ownership Reducing costs and extending equipment life in manufacturing through effective lubrication. Plastic Injection Moulding Learn more about how we can support your plastic manufacturing operations. Reducing Downtime in The Metals Sector Shell technical experts work hand in hand with customers to help implement a proactive maintenance approach. Five Reasons to Invest in Equipment Maintenance Why investing in maintenance makes good business sense. Case Study: Eliminating downtime and reducing costs See how Shell Lubricant Solutions helped Egyptian Iron and Steel Company unlock more than $2.6m in savings. Better Lubrication Management Leads to Real-World Savings Oil condition monitoring is a cost-effective way to upgrade your fluid management, so you can focus on the rest of your business. Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Hydraulic Oils Hydraulic oils designed to help improve energy efficiency of hydraulic systems without compromising the protection or maintenance. Turbine Oils Many integrated steel mills contain an in-house power plant powered by a steam turbine. Learn about our range of turbine oils available for your auxiliary equipment. Gear Oils Shell Omala fully synthetic gearbox oil is designed for enclosed industrial spur and bevel gear applications, from standard to demanding high-load and extended-duty applications. Bearing and Circulating Oils The Shell Morlina range of bearing and circulating oils provide consistent and reliable lubrication, whatever the operating conditions. LubeAdvisor Shell Lube Advisors help you use the right Shell oil, at the right time, every time. LubeAnalyst Health check your oil to keep your machines running. LubeCoach Get access to high-quality training materials. The metals industry is one of the most critically important and competitive industries in the world. It operates in extreme conditions, with sophisticated equipment and highly complex supply chains. Productivity, efficiency and modernisation efforts are more important now than ever before – delivering on these requires trusted partnerships with experts who genuinely understand your operations. Whether you’re looking to maximise your older assets or protect state-of-the-art equipment still under warranty, we can help unlock savings, boost performance and ensure your business is sustainable and viable long-term. Shell Lubricant Solutions provides the technology, expertise and services to enhance your equipment investment and output. Working together, we can shape a more productive future for your business – and for the wider industry. The Growth of Sustainability Stakeholders As scrutiny increases, how can metals companies start reducing, or removing, carbon emissions from their processes? The Key Elements of Equipment Maintenance Ensure your maintenance programme covers all the bases. Better Lubrication Management Leads to Real-World Savings Oil condition monitoring is a cost-effective way to upgrade your fluid management, so you can focus on the rest of your business. Reducing Downtime in The Metals Sector Shell technical experts work hand in hand with customers to help implement a proactive maintenance approach. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. With equipment performance under ever-increasing scrutiny in the metals industry, neglecting maintenance and not paying enough attention to what your oil is telling you, is an idea with zero upside. Thankfully, Shell’s oil condition monitoring service - LubeAnalyst - takes care of this by cost-effectively investigating your lubricants, so you can focus on the rest of your business. The Shell LubeAnalyst service includes: A dedicated Mobile app that offers QR code scanning and printing - for fast, trackable and accurate oil sample registration. Global access to third-party laboratories, providing unbiased analysis of any lubricant brand, including customised condemnation limits for your specific conditions. Early failure mode detection that is tailored to your specific equipment, from oil cleanliness checks to contamination control. Quick onsite oil analysis and troubleshooting with Shell LubeAnalyst Lite - for when you need to take immediate action. Beyond the time and energy savings you get from being able to offload these core areas of lubrication management, you also benefit from improved equipment performance, and less downtime – all of which helps improve your margins. Read more about how Shell LubeAnalyst can support your business Shaping a More Productive Future for Your Business Shell can help unlock savings, boost performance and ensure your business is sustainable and viable long-term. The Growth of Sustainability Stakeholders As scrutiny increases, how can metals companies start reducing, or removing, carbon emissions from their processes? The Key Elements of Equipment Maintenance Ensure your maintenance programme covers all the bases. Reducing Downtime in The Metals Sector Shell technical experts work hand in hand with customers to help implement a proactive maintenance approach. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. If you’ve got a problem with machinery breaking down… the odds are, we can help. Our technical experts work hand in hand with customers to identify and understand any issues - then help them move from dealing with downtime reactively, to a proactive, preventative approach to maintenance. Shell’s LubeAnalyst service has helped one of the world’s largest steel companies, based in the US, deliver reported savings of $228,800 in associated costs for parts and labour. Read more about USA LubeAnalyst metals We have helped a wire rod business in China save $1,081,000 every year through increased production, reduced maintenance costs, and by cutting oil and filter consumption. Read more about China Baotou Morlina In Italy we helped a manufacturer save $140,000 by removing 30 hours of maintenance time annually, and halving grease consumption. Read more about Italy Danieli Gadus Shaping a More Productive Future for Your Business Shell can help unlock savings, boost performance and ensure your business is sustainable and viable long-term. The Growth of Sustainability Stakeholders As scrutiny increases, how can metals companies start reducing, or removing, carbon emissions from their processes? The Key Elements of Equipment Maintenance Ensure your maintenance programme covers all the bases. Better Lubrication Management Leads to Real-World Savings Oil condition monitoring is a cost-effective way to upgrade your fluid management, so you can focus on the rest of your business. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. 1. Ramping up production If you are looking to increase production output, having an understanding and plan for what equipment you need to check, and how, will be crucial. With Shell LubeAdvisor you can book an appointment with a metals technical specialist to discuss any of your lubrication or machinery challenges. You can even get help through virtual equipment inspections with our ‘digital glasses’. 2. Adapting to change During challenging times it’s essential to keep employees motivated and engaged through learning. Shell LubeCoach Academy can help educate talent within your business, by allowing your maintenance experts to develop their own lubricant knowledge and skillsets. 3. Extending the lifespan of your equipment Remote monitoring of equipment and digitised analytics solutions have a huge role to play in protecting your equipment. This can help ensure your equipment investment continues delivering value to your business for longer, and is particularly important if you’re looking to increase performance and production output. 4. Protect – and enhance, your bottom line Regardless of the disruption and conditions we face, doing more with less and maximising the production of your existing equipment will always be critically important for maintaining sustainable and successful operations. Shell LubeAdvisor can help you choose the right lubricant or grease for your specific needs. The result? Your equipment is protected and unnecessary downtime is prevented. Our comprehensive Lube Site Surveys can also be an essential part of any cost reduction program. 5. Cut your carbon footprint The metals industry is under mounting pressure to reduce its overall carbon output, through less intensive water use and lower emissions, while fully embracing circular economies. We want to lead the world in cleaner energy solutions, and our competitive range of products and services are designed to help meet your energy and environmental needs. Read more about how Shell is supporting companies in their sustainability goals Shaping a More Productive Future for Your Business Shell can help unlock savings, boost performance and ensure your business is sustainable and viable long-term. Case Study: Eliminating downtime and reducing costs See how Shell Lubricant Solutions helped Egyptian Iron and Steel Company unlock more than $2.6m in savings. LubeAdvisor Shell Lube Advisors help you use the right Shell oil, at the right time, every time. LubeCoach Get access to high-quality training materials. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Shell Lubricant Solutions collaborates with Egyptian Iron and Steel Company to deliver millions of dollars of savings Challenge The Egyptian Iron & Steel Company manufactures steel products including steel sections, flat steel sheets and rebar. The company was experiencing high operational costs because of the poor performance and low efficiency of its existing lubricants. Operators needed to grease the casting machine every 75 hours, which generated a significant loss in production and increased operating costs. Solution The Shell technical team recommended a high base oil viscosity grease, Shell Gadus S3 V460, made with a lithium complex soap thickener, which is particularly suitable for the heavy-duty operations of a factory. This product was recommended because its formula resists water washout, copes well in high temperatures and withstands continuous vibrations and shocks, which makes it particularly suitable for the heavy-duty factory operations. Results As a result of switching to Shell Gadus S3 V460, the Egyptian Iron & Steel Company extended the greasing intervals for the casting machine from 75 to 250 hours, an increase of 333%. This resulted in decreased maintenance costs and lubricant consumption and increased production time through trouble-free operation. The company has reported total annual savings of US$2,688,000 through the elimination of production downtime. More about Shell Gadus The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. The Key Elements of Equipment Maintenance Ensure your maintenance programme covers all the bases. Better Lubrication Management Leads to Real-World Savings Oil condition monitoring is a cost-effective way to upgrade your fluid management, so you can focus on the rest of your business. Reducing Downtime in The Metals Sector Shell technical experts work hand in hand with customers to help implement a proactive maintenance approach. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Like its close counterpart mining, the steel industry has an intricate role to play in the energy transition. While steel suppliers support the growth of renewable industries – like wind turbines and electric vehicles (EVs) – the carbon-intensive manufacturing required means that if the steel industry was a country, it would rank third in the world for carbon dioxide emissions1. Though it might seem paradoxical at first, society in fact needs more – not less – steel to accelerate this transition. But to meet global energy and climate goals, emissions from the steel industry must fall at least 50% by 20502 – a difficult ask given that global steel production remains as emissions-intensive as it was 20 years ago3. The question quickly switches then from “how much?” to “how is it made?” since, to balance increased growth with reduced environmental impact, a much larger proportion of future steel must be produced with fewer emissions attached. This has led to the rise in ”low-carbon”4, or “fossil-free” initiatives, all of which fall under the umbrella term of “green steel”, as companies strive to produce a product with the lowest carbon footprint possible. However, with no universal definition of “green steel”, could progress in this area be stunted? Low-carbon strategies for steel producers to consider With various terminologies and a range of low-carbon innovations and technologies being explored globally, the World Steel Association has helpfully grouped these approaches into three broad categories: carbon; hydrogen; and electricity5. Because many processes, including steel production, are not able to be zero-carbon at this stage, carbon mitigation strategies are being used across heavy industry to deal with emissions that are, as of yet, unavoidable. For the steel industry, carbon capture and storage (CCS) is perhaps one of the more popular and promising approaches. This involves using various technologies to capture carbon dioxide emissions from the steelmaking process, before transporting them (if necessary) to a separate site, where they can finally be injected and stored deep underground. Though the IEA suggests CCS is a “relatively advanced and cost-competitive option for dramatically cutting CO2 emissions,” public perception is somewhat mixed and scaling its infrastructure may prove difficult6. However, projects like Northern Lights – a partnership between Shell, Equinor, Total and the Norwegian government – aim to show how important CCS can be for carbon-intensive processes with limited alternative options, such as steel production. Hydrogen offers the industry another means of reducing emissions from the steelmaking process. Whether it is used as an auxiliary reducing agent within the blast furnace itself or as a sole reducing agent while producing Direct Reduced Iron (DRI), hydrogen is a cleaner alternative since its only waste product is water. And that’s not the only benefit: a project in Japan has successfully demonstrated a 20% emissions reduction by using DRI produced using hydrogen and carbon monoxide from natural gas7. Because industrial sectors like steel cannot be easily electrified, as an energy-dense gaseous fuel, hydrogen can play an important role in decarbonising production - especially if it is produced through renewable-powered electrolysis and classified as “green”. “Green” hydrogen is allowing some companies to explore the development of effectively “fossil-free” steel. However, many of these technology platforms are not yet mature enough to be widely scaled or cost-effective. A more immediate solution for steel operators might therefore be to incorporate the use of “blue” hydrogen, produced as part of CCS plants like the Quest facility in Alberta, Canada. Then comes electrolysis. While the iron and oxygen that make up iron ore can be separated by chemical reductants, electrolysis is an alternative way to achieve this same result. The benefit is that oxygen is the sole by-product, instead of carbon dioxide. The challenge however, is how to develop the technology so that it is both commercially scalable and cost-effective for steel producers. The main obstacle being how to source enough clean power to keep the entire method carbon-free. A case in point is molten oxide electrolysis – a process that is being explored by a couple of industry groups and does not require traditional coke ovens or blast furnaces8. While it holds long-term potential for a cheaper and cleaner steelmaking process, only kilograms of iron have been produced using electrolysis to date, meaning its volume would have to multiply by around eight orders of magnitude for electrolysis to have a meaningful impact on the industry’s decarbonisation drive9. Since each solution presents its own challenges, steel companies must carefully decide which pathway best suits their needs and capabilities. And the importance of this choice cannot be underestimated, especially since major reinvestment in – or refurbishment of – production facilities and equipment occurs only every couple of decades, with much of the world’s sites due to start this cycle relatively soon10. But that doesn’t mean inaction is an option until that point. There are other more accessible and immediate solutions that can help steel operators reduce emissions until these larger-scale fixes are scalable. Collaborating with a strategic partner such as Shell Lubricant Solutions can help support the optimisation of equipment maintenance: whether through carbon neutral lubricants or oil condition monitoring like Shell LubeAnalyst, these actions can help steel facilities to start taking meaningful steps towards a more sustainable future, today. Decarbonisation after all, is a journey and companies must work within their ecosystem to make continual progress. But this will only be possible through strong collaboration – within the sector and beyond – that can help decarbonise the entire value chain. As an organisation with experience in shaping these journeys, Shell is more than happy to help. Footnotes 1 Mark Peplow. “Can industry decarbonize steelmaking?” Chemistry and Engineering. 13 June, 2021. 2 International Energy Agency. “Iron and steel technology roadmap.” IEA.org. October 2020. 3 Peter Levi, Tiffany Vass, Hana Mandová and Alexandre Gouy. “Iron and steel technology roadmap.” International Energy Agency. June 2020. 4 “Low-carbon steel” is used here in an emissions sense as opposed to a metallurgical sense. It is important to make this distinction since the term has historically been used to describe steel with a carbon content of less than 0.3%. However, the concept is now gaining traction outside of the industry as a comparison to terms such as “low-carbon electricity” or “low-carbon buildings”. 5 World Steel Association. “Breakthrough technologies.” WorldSteel.org. 2021. 6 Adam Baylin-Stern and Niels Berghout. “Is carbon capture too expensive?” International Energy Agency. 17 February, 2021. 7 Bellona Europa. “Hydrogen in steel production: what is happening in Europe – part two.” Bellona.org. 26 May, 2021. 8 Energy.nl. “High-temperature molten oxide electrolysis steelmaking (ULCOLYSIS).” Energy.nl. 28 September, 2020. 9 World Steel Association. “Electrolysis in ironmaking.” IEA.org. May 2021. 10 Cate Lawrence. “Why everyone is talking about ‘green steel’ at COP26.” The Next Web. 05 November, 2021. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Steel is vital to our ability to live more sustainably. It plays a major role in the construction of renewable energy solutions like solar panels and wind turbines (up to 79% of which are made from the metal)1. And it will form the electric vehicles that will help us reach a lower-carbon transport future. However, there is still some way to go for steel to be a sustainable material. In fact, each ton of steel produced today emits on average 1.4 tons of CO2 2. This leaves the metals industry facing a tricky paradox to resolve. How can businesses drive growth and meet their sustainability goals? For Mario Viarengo, Global Industry Marketing General Manager, Shell Lubricant Solutions, the challenge is clear. “Our society, and our economy, need steel, but we must also find ways to reduce its carbon footprint,” he explains. “So, how do industry leaders balance the two? How do they grapple with the conflicting need to increase output while reducing environmental impact?” These are big questions for metals leaders to answer, but Viarengo does not see productivity and sustainability as competing aims. This perspective is backed up by the fact that an estimated 14% of steel industry companies’ potential value is at risk if they cannot decrease their environmental impact3. “This would suggest that sustainability and productivity do not have to be mutually exclusive goals. Instead, they might actually be dependent on each other for success,” says Viarengo. “Perhaps steel businesses do not have to think about these issues separately. Perhaps they are not facing the paradox they initially thought they were.” 4 practical ways for steelmakers to operate more efficiently To make steel more sustainable, businesses need to adapt their operations to run more efficiently. So, here are 4 steps they can take to increase output while improving their impact on the environment: Facing a mix of operational, financial and regulatory pressures, it is important for companies to explore how every solution can have a wider impact on their business. And maintenance offers such an opportunity. “Take carbon-neutral lubricants for example,” explains Viarengo. “Making the switch can help businesses achieve a variety of aims. They can avoid unexpected maintenance costs and maintain high levels of operational performance – all while managing their sustainability needs.” According to Viarengo, these products are more widespread than people think. “Many companies don’t even realise there are carbon-neutral options already available,” he says. “Shell Omala S4 GXV, Shell Omala S4 WE, Shell Gadus S5 T, Shell Gadus S5 V and Shell Tellus S4 VE are all examples of carbon-neutral lubricants* that our metals customers use – sometimes without knowing the positive impact they can have on their sustainability goals.” Resource management is set to play a key role in helping companies across all industries operate more efficiently and more sustainably. After all, lower consumption means lower costs and less waste. “Many metals already have impressive recycling rates, but waste management can go beyond just your core materials,” says Viarengo. “From redesigning production processes to lowering water wastage, businesses are beginning to employ a variety of methods that help to lower costs while boosting their business and sustainability credentials.” “And, of course, lubricants can help here too,” he adds. “Often, the higher the quality of a product, the less oil is needed or wasted.” Steel production still relies on coal for 75% of its energy demand4. It is a situation that needs to change if the industry is to meet its sustainability goals – and renewables will be vital in moving away from power derived from fossil fuels. “Moving your operations towards renewable energy sources like solar, or cleaner alternatives like hydrogen can make a world of difference to business efficiency,” says Viarengo. “I’ve seen this first-hand, with more than 50% of the electricity used in Shell’s Lubricant Blending Plants now coming from renewable sources5. Meanwhile, energy monitoring systems are helping our facilities to become even more energy efficient.” No one company can do everything alone. The energy transition makes collaboration between businesses and across industries essential. And leaders need to forge the right partnerships to help them deliver on the potential of sustainable growth. “The right expertise is out there; businesses often just don’t know where to find it,” says Viarengo. “Ironically, sometimes it’s right in front of you. For example, rather than simply providing the oil that can help reduce downtime, at Shell we have additional services available that can also help customers uncover hidden opportunities they had not previously spotted.” “We have helped one of the world’s largest steel companies save more than $228,000 by using oil condition monitoring to uncover two separate, hidden issues with their equipment,” he explains. “We have also supported a wire rod business in China save more than $1 million a year through increased production, reduced maintenance costs, and by cutting oil and filter consumption.” 6 Collaborating to create a cleaner future for steel The link between productivity and sustainability means that steel companies are not caught in a paradox, forced to choose between one course of action at the expense of the other. But, as they look to increase output while managing their environmental impact, there is still plenty to do. Collaboration will be critical to success and will make sure the right skills, expertise and knowledge are in place to transition to a cleaner energy future. “No matter where you are on your current decarbonisation journey, keep in mind that introducing a fresh perspective to the problem at hand might be a helpful way to balance output with impact,” concludes Viarengo. “After all, no one business is expected to have all the answers. As industries, we must work together to create solutions that can drive both performance and sustainable growth.” Footnotes 1 US Geological Survey. “What materials are used to make wind turbines?” usgs.gov. N.D. 2 International Energy Agency. “Iron and Steel Technology Roadmap.” IEA.org. October, 2020. 3 Hoffman, Christian, Michel Van Hoey and Benedikt Zeumer. “Decarbonization challenge for steel.” Mckinsey & Company. 03 June, 2020. 4 International Energy Agency. “Iron and Steel Tracking Report.” IEA.org. November, 2021. 5 Including renewable electricity contracts. Based on Shell internal data. 6 Shell. “Reducing downtime in the Metals Sector”. Shell.com. *”Carbon neutral” indicates that Shell has engaged in a transaction where an amount of CO₂ equivalent to the CO₂e amount associated with the raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution, usage and end-of-life of the Lubricants has been avoided as emissions through the protection of natural ecosystems or removed from the atmosphere through a nature-based process. CO₂e (CO₂ equivalent) refers to CO₂, CH₄, N₂O Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. How to drive supply chain sustainability Uncover the three main principles driving sustainability throughout the supply chain and explore the technologies that are helping the steel industry to decarbonise. Go to video How to balance productivity and sustainability Learn how choosing the right product can help reduce energy consumption, carbon footprint and carbon intensity and enhance the reliability of your equipment. Go to video How to future-proof operations Discover the key steps the metals industry can take to improve operational efficiency and run more sustainably to future-proof business operations. Go to video How to gain efficiencies with effective lubrication Learn about the important role lubricants play in driving operational efficiencies within metals production. Go to video How can the steel industry operate sustainably throughout the supply chain? In this video, Clare Broadbent, Head of Sustainability at World Steel Association, shares the three main principles driving sustainability throughout the supply chain and explores the technologies that are helping the steel industry to decarbonise. Are operational efficiency and sustainability mutually exclusive? In this video, Greg Morris, Shell Technical Expert and Metals Sector Grease Product Application Specialist (Americas), shares how choosing the right product can help reduce energy consumption, carbon footprint and carbon intensity and enhance reliability. Industry expert Paul Robinson, Director of CRU Group Commodities Business Intelligence company, shares key steps the metals industry can take to improve operational efficiency and run more sustainably to future-proof business operations. In this video Jason Cao, Shell Technical Expert and Metals Sector Lubricants Product Application Specialist (Asia-Pacific), shares insights on the important role lubricants play in driving operational efficiencies within metals production. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. For thousands of years, innovative thinking in metals production has allowed society to experience the benefits of iron, copper, steel and bronze. A recent discovery in Sri Lanka uncovered how natural wind pressure during monsoon season was used as far back as the first millennium AD to raise the temperature of furnaces and help produce high-carbon steel1. While this process may seem detached from the metals industry of today, it can still teach operators a valuable lesson about how existing tools and processes have always been used to strategically overcome challenges such as inefficiency or production levels. And though digitalisation, sustainability and the effects of the pandemic have moved the goalposts somewhat for modern metal facilities, if operators can finally solve these underlying issues, then the industry will be well on its way to a more sustainable and productive future. Metals' operators are largely focused on keeping efficiency up and costs down; the crux of which lies in maintaining their equipment effectively so uptime remains high. Operating conditions are harsh enough on machinery as it is, so optimum production is a difficult goal to maintain. Combine this with volatile energy and material prices, as well as unexpected supply chain disruption, and the task can sometimes seem insurmountable. The solution: Combining lubricants and technology One simple answer is to make sure lubricants are being selected – and then used in equipment – correctly. The use of the right lubricant has seen one of our partners save more than $12,000 in energy costs for just one application: crane gearboxes2. And when paired with suitable digital solutions – like remote oil condition monitoring – its impact can be even greater. With real-time machinery data outlining important metrics like viscosity range and remaining oil life, efficiency levels can be raised to new heights, while downtime becomes a lot less likely or at least can be better scheduled around busy production periods. From Sri Lanka to South Korea, governing bodies are introducing stricter waste management requirements into law, and companies must ensure their own internal structures are in place and robust. The proper, and efficient, disposal of waste is not just an environmental issue however, but a financial one too. Ultimately, unnecessary waste means unnecessary costs, whether through inefficient equipment, poor use of lubrication or increased disposal fees. The same applies to water usage and management: with large quantities of water used for cleaning and cooling purposes, operators have a responsibility to optimise water usage so as not to further contribute to resource exploitation. The solution: Streamlining and automation Metal plants can combat this by streamlining processes wherever possible. This begins with a clearer understanding of lifecycle thinking and the circular economy – where products and services are designed with waste reduction, repurposing and recycling in mind. A perfect example is the re-refining of oil to recover base oils and other bio-based components, as opposed to traditional disposal routes. But it also extends to the integration of bespoke digital technologies. Automating processes, by introducing robotics for example, can boost efficiency, which is why 63% of metal manufacturing executives are considering automation investment3. Whereas, effective enterprise resource planning (ERP) software can help to simplify the complex requirements – such as pricing, inventory and yield – that define many internal value chains across the metals industry. With agile software systems that can help operators to capture, store and dissect large datasets, strategies can be sharpened around real-time trends and therefore made more impactful. While the metals industry has done a lot over the last few years to become more sustainable from top to bottom, decarbonisation is still extremely high on the agenda. After all, the steel industry alone is still one of the top three contributors to CO2 emissions globally4. Although attention is shifting from a focus on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions – produced directly by companies or indirectly through the purchase of energy – to Scope 3 emissions. These are emissions accrued throughout the entire supply chain, and can include everything from raw materials, operations and distribution to how the products are used and disposed of by customers. The solution: Strengthening your ecosystem Because a key challenge here is the complexity of carbon accounting and tracking – as well as the limited direct influence operators can have on some of these areas – sustainability reporting systems can be extremely useful. As the World Economic Forum’s Mining and Metals Blockchain Initiative has proven, these allow for carbon emissions to be tracked, while providing sharper insight and visibility across the supply chain5. Another tactic is to engage a strategic partner who may be better placed to advise on low-carbon solutions. Gavin Warner, Global Commercial Sustainability General Manager at Shell says: “Working with a partner like Shell Lubricant Solutions can help operators introduce everything from carbon neutral lubricants and carbon offsets to alternative energy solutions and employee training – all with the aim of reducing, avoiding and compensating for emissions." Despite uncontrollable external variables – from pandemics to price fluctuations – industry demand forecasts remain strong, with the World Steel Association having raised its 2021 steel growth projection to 5.8%6. The opportunity for metals' operators is therefore clear. But to capitalise, businesses must focus on the variables they can control – equipment efficiency, internal costs and their carbon footprint – while reaching out to partners like Shell when additional expertise is needed. And by understanding that sustainability solutions can co-exist with business performance and economic benefits, operators can be confident in weathering the storm, even if that storm reaches monsoon-like levels. Footnotes 1 University of Exeter. “Modern and ancient technology meet.” Humanities.Exeter.ac.uk. July 08, 2013. 2 The savings indicated are specific to the calculation date and customer site. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current products being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices 3 The Business Research Company. “Metal products global market report 2021: COVID 19 impact and recovery to 2030.” ReportLinker.com. January, 2021. 4 Ajitesh Anand, Toralf Hagenbruch, Anoop Muppalla and Benedikt Zeumer. “Tackling the challenge of decarbonizing steelmaking.” McKinsey & Company. May 18, 2021. 5 World Economic Forum. “Blockchain can trace carbon emissions for mining, metals companies, proof of concept released.” WEForum.org. December 15, 2020. 6 Diana Kinch. “Worldsteel raises 2021 steel demand growth forecast to 5.8%.” SPGlobal.com. April 15, 2021. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. The world is changing We are witnessing the impact of three key trends on the metals industry – all of which require urgent action from businesses who want to stay one step ahead. Technology Strides are being made in the arena of digitisation, with the upgrading of facilities and upskilling of workforces boosting productivity throughout the sector. Cost pressures Between external pressures and ageing assets, there is a growing demand to reduce downtime and avoid unnecessary costs, by more accurately predicting maintenance needs. Environment The industry is also under mounting pressure to reduce its carbon footprint, through less intensive water use and lower carbon emissions, while fully embracing circular economy. Whether you are looking for enhanced equipment protection, improved energy efficiency, or support in reducing metals waste, Shell Lubricant Solutions has a dedicated offer for your business. Hear from the experts How can the metals sector improve operational efficiency and work to become more sustainable? Watch Greg Morris, Metals Sector Grease Product Application Specialist (Americas) at Shell to find out. Shaping a More Productive Future for Your Business Shell can help unlock savings, boost performance and ensure your business is sustainable and viable long-term. The Key Elements of Equipment Maintenance Ensure your maintenance programme covers all the bases. Better Lubrication Management Leads to Real-World Savings Oil condition monitoring is a cost-effective way to upgrade your fluid management, so you can focus on the rest of your business. Reducing Downtime in The Metals Sector Shell technical experts work hand in hand with customers to help implement a proactive maintenance approach. Traditionally, companies operating within the metals industry have focused on perfecting one simple equation: the highest volumes possible at the lowest production cost available. But pressure is mounting for the metals industry to reduce its carbon footprint and become more sustainable. As a result, metals businesses must consider how to achieve their sustainability goals and improve operational efficiencies without compromising the company’s bottom line. Together, with our shared commitment to change and Shell’s technical expertise – we can achieve these goals to help your business create the metals of the future. Hear from the experts How can the steel industry operate sustainability across the supply chain? Watch Clare Broadbent, Head of Sustainability at World Steel Association, to find out. Shaping a More Productive Future for Your Business Shell can help unlock savings, boost performance and ensure your business is sustainable and viable long-term. The Key Elements of Equipment Maintenance Ensure your maintenance programme covers all the bases. Better Lubrication Management Leads to Real-World Savings Oil condition monitoring is a cost-effective way to upgrade your fluid management, so you can focus on the rest of your business. Reducing Downtime in The Metals Sector Shell technical experts work hand in hand with customers to help implement a proactive maintenance approach. If you don’t have the right tools, it’s hard to do your best work – and the same applies to your machinery. It’s vital that your maintenance programme covers all the bases to ensure your equipment can work harder, for longer. At Shell, we offer end-to-end solutions – from lubricant and oils to services and training – to help ensure your business has less downtime, and more go-time. Shaping a More Productive Future for Your Business Shell can help unlock savings, boost performance and ensure your business is sustainable and viable long-term. The Growth of Sustainability Stakeholders As scrutiny increases, how can metals companies start reducing, or removing, carbon emissions from their processes? Better Lubrication Management Leads to Real-World Savings Oil condition monitoring is a cost-effective way to upgrade your fluid management, so you can focus on the rest of your business. OREN: Shell and IBM create innovative marketplace for mining A new platform designed to connect industry leaders to the world’s most innovative problem solvers. Reducing Total Cost of Ownership in Mining & Quarrying Realise the tangible business benefits of investing in proper lubrication. Optimising Mining Equipment Profitability: Barriers and Opportunities When it comes to maximising the potential of new equipment, don’t fall foul of these obstacles. Supporting Nevada Mining Industry with Global Expertise & Local Understanding See how a new Lubricants Distribution Hub in Winnemucca enabled Shell to provide rapid support to local mining companies. Disclaimers: 1. In heavy-duty engines up to and including Euro III. 2. Compared to regular diesel without fuel economy formula. Actual savings may vary according to vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. Internal Shell tests and with our customers have shown a range of fuel savings depending on age of vehicle and type of operations. 3. In participating locations. “Carbon neutral” indicates that Shell has engaged in a transaction where an amount of CO₂ equivalent to the CO₂e amount associated with the raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution, use and end-of-life of the product has been avoided as emissions through the protection of natural ecosystems or removed from the atmosphere through a nature-based process. CO₂e (CO₂ equivalent) refers to carbon dioxide (CO₂), methane and nitrogen oxides. 4. Readily biodegradable in accordance with OECD 301 B, >60% degraded by the end of the 28-day test. Hydraulic Oils High-performance hydraulic fluids, formulated with ashless technology, to provide excellent viscosity control and protection under severe operating conditions. Heavy duty engine oils Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Transmission Oils The Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and automatic transmission lubricants has been developed to provide choice when selecting the right oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations. Gear Oils The Shell Omala range provides even longer oil life, resulting in less fluid maintenance that your equipment requires, so it can continue to operate without interruption. LubeExpert Include a Shell lube expert in your team to boost productivity. LubeAdvisor Give your equipment the support it requires. Shell Lube Advisors help you use the right Shell oil, at the right time, every time. Shell LubeAnalyst Health check your oil to keep your machines running. The mining industry is tough. People and machines work side by side in extreme temperatures and harsh conditions. Yet the sector is primed for a leap forward. Larger mines are leading the way, by adopting new technologies - and beginning to raise the bar for the rest of the industry. Still, many managers of mining operations must focus so much on the basics of keeping their operation going that it is hard for them to think about anything else. For mines and businesses of all sizes to work smarter, more sustainably – and still increase output, you need a trusted partner that can get to you, wherever you are, whenever you need them. Shell Lubricants Solutions can help you: Understand and take advantage of the innovations available to you now, while keeping up with rapidly changing regulations and stakeholder expectations Increase output without losing sight of your sustainability goals Most importantly of all, we can help you keep the people and communities you care about, safe Your Partner for Efficiency and Profitability Discover end-to-end solutions that help maximise profit and minimise negative impact. Supporting Nevada Mining Industry with Global Expertise & Local Understanding See how a new Lubricants Distribution Hub in Winnemucca enabled Shell to provide rapid support to local mining companies. OREN: Shell & IBM create innovative marketplace for mining A new platform designed to connect industry leaders to the world’s most innovative problem solvers. Reducing Total Cost of Ownership in Mining & Quarrying Realise the tangible business benefits of investing in proper lubrication. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Mining companies have a lot to deal with, while trying to upgrade their equipment and evolve their organisations. We are an end-to-end solutions provider that empowers your business to unearth new ways to move forwards. And do so in a way that maximizes profit and minimizes negative impact. We have long-standing relationships with leading mining equipment manufacturers, and through our services portfolio we have delivered $174 million in benefits to industrial customers 1. As the world’s leading lubricants supplier globally 2 we have the technical expertise to work closely with you, and keep your excavators, miners, drills, and crushers working efficiently. 1 Based on reported customer savings from 2009 to 2018 2 Kline & Co. Global Lubricants: Market Analysis and Assessment (2019) Heavy duty engine oils Heavy duty diesel engine oil designed to deliver outstanding wear protection, with reduced viscosity for improved fuel economy. Hydraulic Oils Hydraulic fluids designed to help users improve the energy efficiency of their hydraulic systems without compromising the protection or maintenance. Gear Oils Designed to protect your grinding mills, open gears and industrial gearboxes operating under demanding high-load and extended-duty applications. Lubricants for Mining Increasing ODIs and reducing equipment downtime by upgrading lubrication. Explore Mining Hub LubeExpert For over 20 years our experts have supported mining companies around the world in identifying issues and solving problems to minimize down time and optimize productivity. LubeExperts offer onsite customer support, helping to resolve problems and optimize lubrication. LubeOptimiser A network of on-site reliability service providers to help move your business ahead by addressing common challenges such as simplifying operations, reducing downtime, and protecting your equipment. LubeAdvisor Give your equipment the support it requires. Shell Lube Advisors help you use the right Shell oil, at the right time, every time. 70 per cent of mining companies are now using at least one type of industry 4.0 technology to improve productivity and operational efficiency. Yet there remains a degree of hesitance toward widespread adoption. Just one in three are investing in cloud-based technologies (35 per cent) and sensors (34 per cent), and less than a quarter (24 per cent) in autonomous equipment. It is not easy to implement these connected technologies at scale, especially when the industry is experiencing a number of background challenges: Depleting ore reserves and declining ore grades in existing operations mean that companies have to mine deeper to reach new deposits, which in turn increases costs. This is problematic when Industry 4.0 often requires high up-front investment. It can also be tough for businesses to assess where the investment will pay off in terms of Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) 1. Improving operations by connecting digital and physical resources Still, the potential upside is huge, connected technologies can help firms better understand their resources, optimize material and equipment flows, anticipate problems before they happen – and automate processes to help staff focus on higher value tasks. For example, high-tech solutions for lubrication management, such as Shell RemoteSense, now incorporate advanced analytics to deliver real-time lubricant condition monitoring and produce actionable insights to boost operational efficiency. And wireless smart sensors are being deployed, through services such as MachineMax, to monitor vehicles on a mining site and deliver insights on how to optimise utilisation. What we can say with certainty is that paying proper attention to machinery is vital. Given the variable nature of mining, frequently operating in extreme locations with challenging geology, equipment is under stress and susceptible to breakdowns. For mining to move forward, digital technology and data must be combined with physical maintenance best practice. Technology-enhanced decision making For example, thanks to 4-D systems, data gathering can be accelerated - making the assessment process more efficient. Mines have become better able to predict and identify potential equipment issues, all helping to lower costs and increase profits. Services such as Shell LubeAnalyst - which provide detailed analysis of equipment from oil testing - act as early warning systems that can identify machinery issues before they lead to breakdown. Digital assistance is also at hand from technology such as Shell’s AI-driven LubeChat, which can help mining companies make faster and more informed decisions on lubricant choice and application. Unleashing maintenance savings Lubricants account for around five per cent of total maintenance expenditure. Yet keeping equipment well-oiled can help to reduce component wear and ultimately costly downtime – which can have far greater financial ramifications, particularly when it comes to critical equipment. In fact, we believe selecting the right oils and greases, and adopting effective lubrication management strategies – supported by data and 4.0 technology - can help to reduce maintenance budgets by 30 per cent 2. 1 Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on industrial equipment, including cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, including costs of lost production during equipment downtime. 2 Costs include maintenance, labour and fuel. Shell RemoteSense Smart lubricant condition monitoring services combining lubricant expertise with advanced analytics to improve equipment health. MachineMax Wireless telematics solution that helps companies maximise the profitability of off-highway fleets, using Internet of things (IoT) technologies, cloud computing and machine learning to cut fuel, maintenance and rental costs, reduce carbon emission and improve a site’s productivity. Shell LubeAnalyst Health check your oil to keep your machines running. Shell LubeChat Receive answers on demand to your oils and lubes questions. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. At Shell, we have worked closely with the maintenance teams of many mining companies. The biggest challenges are often around maintaining equipment, producing more with that equipment and keeping workers safe. This puts added pressure on maintenance teams to extend the life of machinery – for which a smart lubricant strategy can make all the difference. However, our research shows two thirds of companies believe an investment in lubrication will reduce costs by five per cent, when in fact the real value of investing in lubricants is six times larger – saving up to 30 per cent of the total maintenance budget. For example, upgrading to a higher quality lubricant means you can immediately extend oil drain intervals from day one, shaving a chunk off the total cost of ownership. Our LubeExperts understand the intricacies of each individual piece of mining equipment, as well as how it interacts with lubricants. This allows them to help mining companies meet the goal of maximising energy efficiency and productivity. Specific services and tools used include: Inspecting equipment using strobe-o-scope, thermal imaging, and vibration analysis Auditing lubrication systems and injectors Fitting injector spectrum sleeves Optimising greases for fixed and mobile equipment This all goes hand in hand with improving safety - equipment that is operating properly is inherently safer – and more productive. We can also make the process of maintenance itself, safer too. Shell’s single point lubricator, Shell Tactic, reduces human-machine contact because, instead of having to lubricate multiple points around a machine, lubrication is applied just at one point and is then distributed around the equipment as required. Also, this approach reduces the amount of lubrication used by up to 60 per cent, compared to manual application, not least because seals don’t have to be broken so the possibility of contamination is restricted, and less grease is needed to re-seal the machine. The single-point lubricator has been used very effectively by mining companies including Codelco in Chile and VALE in Brazil. We estimate Shell Lube Experts have saved our mining customers more than $63.9 million over the last six years, while improving safety too – a brilliant outcome for any business. Unearthing the Way Forward in Unforgiving Conditions Helping mining companies work smarter and more sustainably, while still increasing output. Effective maintenance: The key to unlocking Mining Industry 4.0 For mining to move forward, digital technology and data must be combined with physical maintenance best practice. OREN: Shell & IBM create innovative marketplace for mining A new platform designed to connect industry leaders to the world’s most innovative problem solvers. Reducing Total Cost of Ownership in Mining & Quarrying Realise the tangible business benefits of investing in proper lubrication. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Shell and IBM have joined forces to create OREN, the first B2B marketplace for the mining and industrial sectors. OREN offers solutions, software, and services to accelerate digital and sustainability transformation. The marketplace connects industry leaders to the world’s most innovative problem solvers. The mining industry has a similar value chain to the energy industry and shares many of the same challenges, such as how to manage operations in remote locations. OREN makes it easier for the services and digital solutions that have driven the transformation in the energy sector, to be transferred effectively to the mining industry. OREN gives mining companies a one-stop-shop to find proven and cutting edge digital solutions from IBM, Shell, and third-party vendors, with software and services listed according to customer needs in areas including operations, sustainability, safety, production, and much more. It also offers a Digital Readiness Audit service, which helps you design a solutions roadmap according to your specific goals and requirements. This could be measuring and benchmarking current capabilities, assessing which use cases to prioritize for specific mining sites, developing a supplier selection criteria or creating a supplier shortlist, based on your priorities and current performance. This platform aims to foster cross-industry collaboration, pioneer a new way forward. Unearthing the Way Forward in Unforgiving Conditions Helping mining companies work smarter and more sustainably, while still increasing output. Effective maintenance: The key to unlocking Mining Industry 4.0 For mining to move forward, digital technology and data must be combined with physical maintenance best practice. Easing the Path to Lower Costs and Improved Safety On-site support from lubricants experts provides a boost to maintenance teams seeking savings and safety improvements. Reducing Total Cost of Ownership in Mining & Quarrying Realise the tangible business benefits of investing in proper lubrication. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Reducing costs is vital in today’s mining environment. Too many customers are increasingly relying on their equipment to simply work harder. This means vehicles machinery are running for longer periods at a time, with heavier loads, against steeper inclines. All to drive maximum productivity for the business. In the short term, pushing equipment harder can boost productivity, but long term, the impact on equipment life, oil drain intervals, and the risk of unplanned downtime can create real problems for mining operations. As maintenance expenditure increases, any benefit in the short term has not only been lost, but thoroughly reversed. While lubricants generally account for a not insignificant five per cent of total maintenance expenditure, when applied based on world-class expertise in producing and managing lubricant programs, they can reduce the total maintenance budget by a remarkable 30 per cent each year 1. There are two processes that are key to achieving this kind of reduction in the total cost of ownership in mining: The first is to use the most appropriate lubricant solution for each type of equipment; The second is to practice effective lubricant management. Shell’s expertise in these areas has enabled mining customers worldwide to release millions of dollars of savings through better lubrication 2. 1 Reported savings delivered to Shell Lubricants customers. 2 Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on the equipment, incl. cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, and costs from lost production during downtime. Unearthing the Way Forward in Unforgiving Conditions Helping mining companies work smarter and more sustainably, while still increasing output. Effective maintenance: The key to unlocking Mining Industry 4.0 For mining to move forward, digital technology and data must be combined with physical maintenance best practice. Easing the Path to Lower Costs and Improved Safety On-site support from lubricants experts provides a boost to maintenance teams seeking savings and safety improvements. OREN: Shell & IBM create innovative marketplace for mining A new platform designed to connect industry leaders to the world’s most innovative problem solvers. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Creating a more profitable mining operation and maximising the returns from your equipment investment means paying attention to critical maintenance measures such as lubrication. For those mining businesses considering upgrading equipment or even making the leap to industry 4.0 technologies 1, proper lubrication and maintenance will help seize the potential of these important new technologies. However, a lack of expertise on effective maintenance and lubrication could prevent companies maximising the potential of their new equipment investment. Here are three things to know. 1. Opportunities to increase profitability are being missed Mining companies are optimistic about the potential benefits of industry 4.0 equipment, but 79% state they are concerned about the specialist maintenance requirements. Almost all recognise that these new technologies will have an impact on their choice of lubricants, but only 52% feel they will need to place more emphasis on equipment protection and only 33% would focus more on longer oil life 2. As a result of these misunderstandings, opportunities for lubrication to increase profitability are being missed. 2. Optimising lubrication can impact the bottom line Proper equipment lubrication can have a significant impact on the bottom line. For example, with mining equipment working under heavy loads and extreme environmental conditions, wear protection is critical at high-pressure contact points, such as in the engine valve train and gearbox. High quality lubrication is designed to protect these critical components by reacting under heat and pressure to form a protective film to reduce wear. This helps lower the occurrence of unplanned downtime, and as such, can contribute to reduced TCO and improved equipment productivity 3. 3. Shell can work with you to help deliver TCO savings Effective lubricant selection and management can help enable companies to achieve total cost of ownership savings from lower maintenance costs, reduced equipment downtime and productivity improvements. Shell’s experts have worked hand in hand with mining customers and collaborated with OEMs to deliver millions of dollars in savings. Whether you need to upgrade your lubrication management, monitor oil and grease usage, get expert advice on site, or train and empower your own staff – we have a team that can help. 1 Industry 4.0 technologies are defined as technologies that support the digitisation and automation of operations (e.g. sensors, connected equipment, autonomous equipment, robotics, cloud based or big data-based technologies) 2 This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 350 interviews with Mining sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries from March to April 2018 3 Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on industrial equipment, including cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, including costs of lost production during equipment downtime Your Partner for Efficiency and Profitability Discover end-to-end solutions that help maximise profit and minimise negative impact. Supporting Nevada Mining Industry with Global Expertise & Local Understanding See how a new Lubricants Distribution Hub in Winnemucca enabled Shell to provide rapid support to local mining companies. OREN: Shell & IBM create innovative marketplace for mining A new platform designed to connect industry leaders to the world’s most innovative problem solvers. Reducing Total Cost of Ownership in Mining & Quarrying Realise the tangible business benefits of investing in proper lubrication. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Challenge Winnemucca in Nevada is the heart of mining country in the USA - the backyard of many of America’s mining companies. As is the case for the whole industry, Mining is a 24/7 operation where it can be difficult to forecast exactly what firms will need. Which is why having products and supplies that can be loaded up and delivered very quickly is so important. When a mine needs something, it is not just a bucketful, it is 5,000 gallons – and needed as soon as possible. Solution Shell working with Silver State Petroleum and a local mining customer, KGHM to help reduce downtime by putting together a hub distribution centre. The two-and-a-half-acre site has a warehouse of 75 hundred square feet and 10 bulk tanks offering 155,000 gallons of total bulk storage. The location of this facility and the global expertise Shell has to offer, has combined to deliver real value for customers. For example, the Shell Lube Advantage is a unique approach that packages products and services together based on what the customer's unique needs are. Results Expanding the regional key mining customer offering, through the new Lubricants Distribution Hub in Winnemucca has helped Shell provide the local, rapid reactive support companies in the area need. Having people nearby that really understand the business, understand the equipment, know what to look for, helps customers find those small adjustments in their operations that can deliver valuable savings. This commitment and expertise has helped Shell save mining customers over $55 million through its products and services in just a five year period alone 1. 1 Global savings reported between 2011-2016 Unearthing the Way Forward in Unforgiving Conditions Helping mining companies work smarter and more sustainably, while still increasing output. Your Partner for Efficiency and Profitability Discover end-to-end solutions that help maximise profit and minimise negative impact. Easing the Path to Lower Costs and Improved Safety On-site support from lubricants experts provides a boost to maintenance teams seeking savings and safety improvements. Effective maintenance: The key to unlocking Mining Industry 4.0 For mining to move forward, digital technology and data must be combined with physical maintenance best practice. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Unlocking efficiency in miningMining companies are significantly undervaluing the potential savings from effective lubrication, according to a study by Shell Lubricants. While 60% of companies recognize they could reduce costs by 5% or more, fewer than 10% realize that the impact of lubricants could be up to six times greater. After decades of working closely with customers in the mining industry, Shell Lubricants understands the challenges companies face in the current climate. Falling commodity prices, together with uncertainties about demand and oversupply makes cost competitiveness a top priority. Investment in new mines is directed to low cost, high productivity projects and existing assets are pushed to maximise production, capitalise upon economies of scale, and drive down cost per production unit. Download this fact sheet to know more what we found in our studies across the mining sector. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Unlocking efficiency in miningMining companies are significantly undervaluing the potential savings from effective lubrication, according to a study by Shell Lubricants. While 60% of companies recognize they could reduce costs by 5% or more, fewer than 10% realize that the impact of lubricants could be up to six times greater. Many mining companies already apply Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) evaluations to measure operational performance, knowing that reducing TCO over the lifetime of machinery enables them to extract the best possible value from the asset. However, the impact of lubrication on TCO is too often underestimated. Download this whitepaper to know about impact of lubricants on cost. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Unlocking efficiency in miningMining companies are significantly undervaluing the potential savings from effective lubrication, according to a study by Shell Lubricants. While 60% of companies recognize they could reduce costs by 5% or more, fewer than 10% realize that the impact of lubricants could be up to six times greater. In general, lubricants account for around 5% of total maintenance expenditure. Shell Lubricants technical experts have helped mining companies achieve savings that equal their total lubricants spend, by adopting the right approach to lubrication. Download this whitepaper to get access to simple steps to build foundation to TCO driven approach in daily operations. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Unlocking efficiency in miningMining companies are significantly undervaluing the potential savings from effective lubrication, according to a study by Shell Lubricants. While 60% of companies recognize they could reduce costs by 5% or more, fewer than 10% realize that the impact of lubricants could be up to six times greater. While you may not believe this, but the answer to maximizing your profits comes down to selecting the right lubricant. It’s a critical first step in improving productivity and in realizing significant TCO savings. Let’s find out how lubricants help in: Extending the equipment life Reducing the frequency of breakdowns Increasing the availability of machines Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Unlocking efficiency in miningMining companies are significantly undervaluing the potential savings from effective lubrication, according to a study by Shell Lubricants. While 60% of companies recognize they could reduce costs by 5% or more, fewer than 10% realize that the impact of lubricants could be up to six times greater. After you’ve gained a perspective on TCO, importance on selection of the right lubrication technique, and the impact of high quality lubricant in your business – let’s understand how can we manage lubrication effectively. Download this whitepaper to know more. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Gear Oils The Shell Omala range of industrial gear oils enables you to match oil life to your operational needs providing less. Stationary Gas Engine Oils Shell’s portfolio of stationary gas engine oils enables you to choose the right lubricant for your equipment to deliver optimum value. Turbine Oils The Shell Turbo range of turbine oil has been developed to ensure outstanding oxidative stability and to resist the effects of water contamination on turbines and turbocompressors. Transformer Oils All Shell Diala electrical oils are designed to offer excellent heat transfer and dielectric properties, even at the lowest start-up operating temperatures, for both transformer and power station applications. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Whether you need a turbine oil for light or heavy duty, gas- or steam-powered turbines, find the right one in our specialised range. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Training Programme Online or in-person training on lubrication and maintenance practices, delivered by Shell technical experts with substantial in-field experience. Technical Advisors From the office to the field, add real value to your business by engaging the support of our maintenance experts. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. 5 Tips for Turbine Oil System Care and Maintenance With demand for reliable energy supply ever more important, one of the biggest concerns among turbine users is unplanned downtime. Below are five steps you can take to get the most out of your turbines and keep them operating at their maximum efficiency. Turbine oil cleanliness is key to ensuring the longest equipment and lubricant life. Contamination may result in the formation of deposits and varnish, which can significantly: reduce the life of bearings and gears affect servo valve operation promote system foaming That is why you need to inspect your system frequently and ensure that your filtration system is in full working order. If water cannot separate from the oil, free water or an oil-in-water emulsion is created and may interfere with the oil film needed to support the loads carried by the bearings. Water can: promote rust and corrosion, speed up the rate of oil oxidation promote other degradation processes such as hydrolysis. Water levels should be monitored using a good oil analysis programme. Water contamination limits should be checked against manufacturers’ recommendations but, in general, water levels should be kept below 500 ppm for gas turbines and 1,000 ppm for steam turbines. All turbine oils should be subjected to a proactive oil analysis monitoring. Many published turbine oil condition monitoring guidelines are available from ASTM, ISO and various equipment manufacturers and lubricant suppliers. It is critical to trace any oil leaks to their source and to eliminate them as soon as possible. The following culprits are common sources: Bearing seals Oil-supply lines Valve connections Cooler tube joints Keeping accurate records will alert you to sudden changes, to enable quick investigation. Temperature: Oil and water to and from the coolers Oil in reservoirs Oil return from main bearings Oil inlet to purification equipment. Operations: Turbine operating hours Oil condition, laboratory results and service hours Time and amount of make-up oil added to system Time of filter changes and service hours Any repairs or replacements. End-to-End Turbine Solutions As demand for reliable power grows, it’s time to ensure your turbines are best positioned to deliver when it’s most needed. Products & Services Don’t let unplanned downtime set back your operations. Discover a portfolio of solutions designed to keep your turbines turning. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Whether you need a turbine oil for light or heavy duty, gas- or steam-powered turbines, find the right one in our specialised range. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Optimising Your Gas Turbine to Meet Growing Energy Demand A growing population means a growing demand for energy, which in turn, means growing pressure on the power equipment that keeps the world’s lights on. At the centre of this equation are powerful gas turbines, forced to worked around the clock in the pursuit of reliable energy output. Operating these turbines maintenance teams are required to keep equipment turning or else face the expensive ramifications of unscheduled downtime. As maintenance staff and machine alike work harder to keep operations online, they face a range of pressures that can potentially spell disaster, including: Thermal stability and oxidation issues, resulting from high temperatures Sticky servo valves and blocked oil filters, caused by deposit formation Varnishing on the thrust and journal bearings, which can disrupt heat transfer Watch the video below as our lubrication experts explain how these dangers can be mitigated by choosing the right turbine oil for the application at hand. End-to-End Turbine Solutions As demand for reliable power grows, it’s time to ensure your turbines are best positioned to deliver when it’s most needed. Products & Services Don’t let unplanned downtime set back your operations. Discover a portfolio of solutions designed to keep your turbines turning. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Whether you need a turbine oil for light or heavy duty, gas- or steam-powered turbines, find the right one in our specialised range. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Modern Solutions for Your Rotating Equipment Tasked with driving reliable, consistent and efficient power generation, turbines require a range of protective measures to ensure they don’t succumb to unplanned downtime. This includes: Protection against wear and corrosion of key system components Cooling of rotating parts to prevent oil degradation and deposit formation Avoidance of metal-on-metal contact and valve sticking. Helping combat these varied pressures is your turbine oil. At Shell Lubricant Solutions, we design turbine oils that help keep your equipment in motion, by delivering enhanced protection, long oil life and high system efficiency under continuous operating conditions. Alongside the products are our expert services. Whether it’s choosing the right oil grade, or supporting with ongoing monitoring to stop potential problems in their tracks, we can help you get the most from your equipment. Products & Services Don’t let unplanned downtime set back your operations. Discover a portfolio of solutions designed to keep your turbines turning. Meeting Energy Demand Watch our experts identify the potential issues your gas turbine faces and how to overcome them through strategic maintenance decisions. Component Care Protecting your turbine’s components from wear and contamination is a full-time job. Learn to share the load with our high-quality turbine oils. Optimising Your Turbines For every minute your turbine isn’t performing at its peak, you risk losing money. Maximise your output with these turbine maintenance tips. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. The Pivotal Role of Turbine Oil Regardless of whether your turbine is powered by gas or steam, it relies on lubrication to reach its full potential. Lubrication that has been robustly tested and can be trusted to help deliver safe, reliable and cost-effective operations throughout the entire lifetime of your turbine. The Shell Turbo range of oils has been formulated with the varied needs of power companies and process plant operators in mind, providing: System protection – from corrosion, deposit build-up and lacquer Longer oil life – to help minimise costly downtime Operating efficiency – through rapid air release and excellent filterability Explore the benefits of Shell Turbo and learn how our range of lubrication services are best positioned to help your equipment perform without compromise. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Whether you need a turbine oil for light or heavy duty, gas- or steam-powered turbines, find the right one in our specialised range. Shell Varnish Removal Fluid Reduce maintenance downtime with a fluid that has high varnish dissolution capacity enabling the oil cleaning device to remove the varnish effectively. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Training Programme Online or in-person training on lubrication and maintenance practices, delivered by Shell technical experts with substantial in-field experience. Technical Advisors From the office to the field, add real value to your business by engaging the support of our maintenance experts. On-site Reliability Service Providers Improve your lubrication performance and avoid unseen disruptions with expert on-site support for your common oil and grease challenges. Meeting Energy Demand Watch our experts identify the potential issues your gas turbine faces and how to overcome them through strategic maintenance decisions. Component Care Protecting your turbine’s components from wear and contamination is a full-time job. Learn to share the load with our high-quality turbine oils. A Collaborative Approach See how Shell Lubricant Solutions are helping businesses across the globe improve their maintenance practices, with high-performance turbine oils and supporting services. Optimising Your Turbines For every minute your turbine isn’t performing at its peak, you risk losing money. Maximise your output with these turbine maintenance tips. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Optimising Your Gas Turbine to Meet Growing Energy Demand A growing population means a growing demand for energy, which in turn, means growing pressure on the power equipment that keeps the world’s lights on. At the centre of this equation are powerful gas turbines, forced to worked around the clock in the pursuit of reliable energy output. Operating these turbines maintenance teams are required to keep equipment turning or else face the expensive ramifications of unscheduled downtime. As maintenance staff and machine alike work harder to keep operations online, they face a range of pressures that can potentially spell disaster, including: Thermal stability and oxidation issues, resulting from high temperatures Sticky servo valves and blocked oil filters, caused by deposit formation Varnishing on the thrust and journal bearings, which can disrupt heat transfer Watch the video below as our lubrication experts explain how these dangers can be mitigated by choosing the right turbine oil for the application at hand. End-to-End Turbine Solutions As demand for reliable power grows, it’s time to ensure your turbines are best positioned to deliver when it’s most needed. Products & Services Don’t let unplanned downtime set back your operations. Discover a portfolio of solutions designed to keep your turbines turning. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Whether you need a turbine oil for light or heavy duty, gas- or steam-powered turbines, find the right one in our specialised range. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Protecting Your Hydroelectric Turbine Hydroelectric turbine systems rely on many of the same moving parts as their gas or steam counterparts, albeit relying on water to generate power. Reliable and efficient electricity generation depends on protecting components from exposure to detrimental pressures. For a hydroelectric turbine, the main concern is understandably the effects of the vast amount of water involved in the process, with water contamination posing a real risk to the operation, largely in the form of bearing corrosion and wear. Because bearing failure – and the downtime associated with it – can lead to significant repair costs, it’s vital that a high-performing lubricant is in place that has the right properties to resist water contamination. Watch the video below to find out more about how Shell Turbo turbine oils - together with proactive lubricant management practices - can meet your hydroelectric turbine needs. End-to-End Turbine Solutions As demand for reliable power grows, it’s time to ensure your turbines are best positioned to deliver when it’s most needed. Products & Services Don’t let unplanned downtime set back your operations. Discover a portfolio of solutions designed to keep your turbines turning. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Whether you need a turbine oil for light or heavy duty, gas- or steam-powered turbines, find the right one in our specialised range. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. A Collaborative Approach to Advance Your Maintenance Strategy Chemical company Yara knows exactly what it takes for modern power equipment to perform. As power output increases and maintenance intervals are extended, it’s clear that more is being asked of the oil within their turbine systems. As a result, the turbine oils they choose must be equipped with a range of characteristics to help: Maintain equipment reliability Increase operational efficiency Reduce Total Cost of Ownership Formulated using Shell gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology, Shell Turbo S4 X has helped businesses like Yara significantly extend their maintenance intervals, meaning greater protection, more uptime and lower maintenance costs. And alongside an oil condition monitoring service like Shell LubeAnalyst, maintenance teams can begin building a more detailed, preventative strategy, using in-depth oil analysis insights to gradually move from time-based to condition-based maintenance. Watch the video below to learn more about the operational benefits of the Shell Turbo range. End-to-End Turbine Solutions As demand for reliable power grows, it’s time to ensure your turbines are best positioned to deliver when it’s most needed. Products & Services Don’t let unplanned downtime set back your operations. Discover a portfolio of solutions designed to keep your turbines turning. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Whether you need a turbine oil for light or heavy duty, gas- or steam-powered turbines, find the right one in our specialised range. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. 5 Tips for Turbine Oil System Care and Maintenance With demand for reliable energy supply ever more important, one of the biggest concerns among turbine users is unplanned downtime. Below are five steps you can take to get the most out of your turbines and keep them operating at their maximum efficiency. Turbine oil cleanliness is key to ensuring the longest equipment and lubricant life. Contamination may result in the formation of deposits and varnish, which can significantly: reduce the life of bearings and gears affect servo valve operation promote system foaming That is why you need to inspect your system frequently and ensure that your filtration system is in full working order. If water cannot separate from the oil, free water or an oil-in-water emulsion is created and may interfere with the oil film needed to support the loads carried by the bearings. Water can: promote rust and corrosion, speed up the rate of oil oxidation promote other degradation processes such as hydrolysis. Water levels should be monitored using a good oil analysis programme. Water contamination limits should be checked against manufacturers’ recommendations but, in general, water levels should be kept below 500 ppm for gas turbines and 1,000 ppm for steam turbines. All turbine oils should be subjected to a proactive oil analysis monitoring. Many published turbine oil condition monitoring guidelines are available from ASTM, ISO and various equipment manufacturers and lubricant suppliers. It is critical to trace any oil leaks to their source and to eliminate them as soon as possible. The following culprits are common sources: Bearing seals Oil-supply lines Valve connections Cooler tube joints Keeping accurate records will alert you to sudden changes, to enable quick investigation. Temperature: Oil and water to and from the coolers Oil in reservoirs Oil return from main bearings Oil inlet to purification equipment. Operations: Turbine operating hours Oil condition, laboratory results and service hours Time and amount of make-up oil added to system Time of filter changes and service hours Any repairs or replacements. End-to-End Turbine Solutions As demand for reliable power grows, it’s time to ensure your turbines are best positioned to deliver when it’s most needed. Products & Services Don’t let unplanned downtime set back your operations. Discover a portfolio of solutions designed to keep your turbines turning. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Whether you need a turbine oil for light or heavy duty, gas- or steam-powered turbines, find the right one in our specialised range. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Three Tips for Effective Turbine Oil Maintenance To meet the growing power demands of an ever-growing population, gas and steam turbine users want to feel confident that their equipment is reliable, efficient, and delivering peak performance every day. Proper care and maintenance of turbine oils is critical to avoiding disruptive and potentially costly downtime, and can help extend oil and component life. Here are three tips to help set you up for success: 1. Select a reliable turbine oil Choosing a high-performing turbine oil that meets, and ideally exceeds, the recommendations set out by the equipment manufacturer is important for maintaining plant efficiency and helping to lower your total cost of ownership. 2. Keep it clean Contamination control in any turbine system is paramount for protection of the components. Contamination from solids can damage bearings and valves, and significantly shorten their lifetimes. What can you do?: Flush the turbine during the initial start-up Use an effective filtration system Check the proper filtration guidelines with the manufacturer of your turbine system Inspect your system regularly Water contamination can be catastrophic for rotating equipment. In turbines, water can increase the wear on bearings, reducing their life, and can cause rust and corrosion. Water can also increase the rate of oxidation of the turbine oil. What can you do?: Water contamination is easily monitored using oil analysis. Check with your equipment manufacturer, but water contamination generally should be kept below 500 ppm for gas turbines and 1,000 ppm for steam turbines. 3. Implement proactive oil analysis monitoring Proactive oil analysis can give early indications of any issues, to enable you to take action to avoid a breakdown. Maintaining records and trending your oil analysis will give you a good picture of what is happening in your turbine over time, so you can spot any anomalies. Many published turbine oil condition monitoring guidelines are available from ASTM, ISO, equipment manufacturers and lubricant suppliers. Shell Turbo - Turbine oils Shell has developed a range of turbine oils that enables users such as power companies and process plant operators to select the oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations through enhanced protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. Shell LubeChat Our new online chat tool gives you answers to questions about oils and lubes. Power of Partnerships Discover how we can help you solve challenges and increase your business performance. Shell Expertise Discover more ways to optimise your business operations and make your ambitions a reality. Shell Argina – Power Engine Oils Providing better base number retention and less oil consumption, see why Shell Argina could be the perfect oil for your high-output and dual-fuel engines. Shell Gadinia – Power Engine Oils Choose Shell Gadinia for an engine oil that has been specially developed for diesel engines and is approved for a broad range of ancillary equipment. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engine Oils With ultra-extended oil life and excellent deposit handling, find out how Shell Mysella is up to the challenge of even the most demanding of operating conditions. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. A Winning Formula for Stationary Engine Care Stationary engines are more powerful than they ever have been. While advanced OEM designs are helping to meet growing power demands, they are also creating a more extreme set of operating conditions for in-system engine oils. As a result, maintenance and monitoring are key challenges for power engine operators, who need integrated solutions that are fast-acting and easy to apply. To solve today’s most pressing operational needs, Shell Lubricant Solutions combines expert services and high-performing products. These are designed to unlock the potential of your equipment, by helping target key areas of engine maintenance, from extending oil-drain intervals to protecting key components like piston assemblies and combustion chambers. Products & Services Without a robust maintenance strategy, your operations risk backfiring. Put the right measures in place with our portfolio of engine oils and services. Powering Next-Generation Gas Engines An evolution in stationary gas engines is underway. See how Shell Mysella engine oils can help unlock your equipment’s potential. Why Protection Matters Modern engine designs are more powerful, but also more vulnerable to wear. Protect your engines and you’ll protect your profits. 4 Ways Lubrication Can Boost Productivity and Profits It’s a simple equation: greater productivity equals greater profits. Learn how to add effective lubrication into the mix. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Creating a Better Working Environment for Your Engines When it comes to stationary engines there is no “one-size-fits-all” approach. To combat the nuances of a varied power engine sector, the Shell Lubricant Solutions offering is equally diverse: Shell Mysella – Formulated for natural or sour gas, particularly in the latest generation of high-output engines. Shell Argina – Designed for use in stationary engines with low SLOC and/or burning high-sulphur heavy fuel oil. Shell Gadinia – Developed specifically for stationary engines that burn diesel or other distillate fuels. And the support doesn’t stop there. Accompanying these high-quality lubricating oils are a range of lubrication services, helping you get the most from your oil and the best for your business. Whether you need immediate technical advice, on-site expert support or regular equipment monitoring, we can help. Find out more at the links below. Shell Argina – Power Engine Oils Providing better base number retention and less oil consumption, see why Shell Argina could be the perfect oil for your high-output and dual-fuel engines. Shell Gadinia – Power Engine Oils Choose Shell Gadinia for an engine oil that has been specially developed for diesel engines and is approved for a broad range of ancillary equipment. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engine Oils With ultra-extended oil life and excellent deposit handling, find out how Shell Mysella is up to the challenge of even the most demanding of operating conditions. Shell LubeAnalyst Provide your equipment with the regular health check it needs to maintain peak performance over its entire lifetime. Shell LubeAdvisor Sometimes a task is beyond the means of your in-house maintenance team. Extend your capabilities with our on-site technical advisers. Shell LubeCoach Online or in-person training on lubrication and maintenance practices, delivered by Shell technical experts with substantial in-field experience. Expert Support Discover how expert support can help you get more from your engines, with oil condition monitoring. Powering Next-Generation Gas Engines An evolution in stationary gas engines is underway. See how Shell Mysella engine oils can help unlock your equipment’s potential. Why Protection Matters Modern engine designs are more powerful, but also more vulnerable to wear. Protect your engines and you’ll protect your profits. 4 Ways Lubrication Can Boost Productivity and Profits It’s a simple equation: greater productivity equals greater profits. Learn how to add effective lubrication into the mix. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Powering Next-Generation Gas Engines Global demand for power is greater than ever, driving an evolution in stationary gas engines. However, the more powerful the engine, the more extreme the operating conditions of the lubricating oil. Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra was designed to tackle the challenges of modern engine running environments. As the latest and most advanced formulation within the Shell Mysella family of lubricants, it ultra-extends oil life and offers excellent deposit handling. This will help to ensure greater reliability, protect components, reduce downtime and lower total cost of ownership. Helping to generate the power we need to keep the lights on. End-to-End Engine Solutions Overcome the combined pressures of intense operating conditions and advanced engine designs, with better informed maintenance decisions. Products and Services Without a robust maintenance strategy, your operations risk backfiring. Put the right measures in place with our portfolio of engine oils and services. Why Equipment Protection Matters Modern engine designs are more powerful, but also more vulnerable to wear. Protect your engines and you’ll protect your profits. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engine Oils With ultra-extended oil life and excellent deposit handling, find out how Shell Mysella is up to the challenge of even the most demanding of operating conditions. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Make Sure Your Equipment Runs Without Compromise To meet growing energy demand worldwide, engine manufacturers are increasingly pushing the boundaries when it comes to engine design. In response, lubricating oils must be equipped to protect these engines from the increased stresses that higher levels of output entail, aiding efficiency and protecting business performance in the process. Enhancing Engine Protection Exposing engines oils to greater pressures or higher temperatures risks rapid base number (BN) depletion and viscosity increase, both of which can reduce the level of protection that the oil is able to provide. And with modern engines often allowing for less oil to circulate in their system, it needs to be able to offer more with less. Therefore, an engine oil needs the right characteristics – like greater BN retention and viscosity control – to better handle the pressures of these demanding conditions. Improving Operational Efficiency With better protection comes greater efficiency. Vital to consistently meeting business targets, improving engine efficiency can have a host of benefits for your operations, including: More reliable equipment and less likelihood of breakdown An improved environmental performance and lower emissions output Greater competitiveness due to a more profitable operation Reducing Operating Costs Ensuring adequate protection and efficiency are achieved goes a long way to safeguarding the financial side of your operations. A more reliable engine requires less in the way of ongoing maintenance, therefore reducing Total Cost of Ownership (TCO). And when paired with an effective oil condition monitoring programme, like Shell LubeAnalyst, predictive maintenance can help avoid unforeseen costs, giving you back control of your business, both operationally and financially. End-to-End Engine Solutions Overcome the combined pressures of intense operating conditions and advanced engine designs, with better informed maintenance decisions. Products and Services Without a robust maintenance strategy, your operations risk backfiring. Put the right measures in place with our portfolio of engine oils and services. Shell LubeAnalyst Provide your equipment with the regular health check it needs to maintain peak performance over its entire lifetime. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engine Oils With ultra-extended oil life and excellent deposit handling, find out how Shell Mysella is up to the challenge of even the most demanding of operating conditions. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Uncover Your Engine’s Hidden Potential with Oil Condition Monitoring 44% of power operators think that, until a breakdown occurs, equipment maintenance is sometimes deprioritised.1 With assets that cost thousands to repair and downtime that can be even more expensive, taking this kind of reactive approach to your component care is not a sustainable way to run your power operations. Fortunately, oil condition monitoring (OCM) advancements are helping maintenance staff to transition towards a more predictive maintenance schedule. Being able to proactively forecast equipment health and needs moves plants into a smarter way of working that is more likely to see your business reach its full potential. Minimise Unplanned Downtime The predictive capabilities that OCM enables provide you with a glimpse into the future of your equipment’s performance. Consistent oil analysis helps to spot trends and flag potential failures, giving you the foresight to take action before it’s too late. The result? A reduction in unexpected equipment downtime. Enhance Reliability The right oil tests provide a deep dive into the health of your lubricating system. Whether it’s contamination, oxidation or nitration that needs addressing, these insights can help you take the necessary actions to extend your oil-drain interval (ODI). An extended ODI means more consistent performance and less need for timely and expensive maintenance. Increase Availability The supply and demand economics of the power industry mean that your machines must be ready to produce at a moment’s notice. If engines fail when they are needed most, there are not only financial repercussions, but also reputational risks. Predictive maintenance puts control back in your hands, ensuring equipment is online for production peaks, while allowing you to plan unavoidable downtime for when tariffs are lower. 1 This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 350 interviews with Power sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to May 2018. For more information, please visit www.edelmanintelligence.com. End-to-End Engine Solutions Overcome the combined pressures of intense operating conditions and advanced engine designs, with better informed maintenance decisions. Products and Services Without a robust maintenance strategy, your operations risk backfiring. Put the right measures in place with our portfolio of engine oils and services. LubeAnalyst Provide your equipment with the regular health check it needs to maintain peak performance over its entire lifetime. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engine Oils With ultra-extended oil life and excellent deposit handling, find out how Shell Mysella is up to the challenge of even the most demanding of operating conditions. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Most stationary engine operators will be keenly aware of the link between productivity and profitability, since the assets they work with are expensive to fix and can be hugely damaging to the bottom line when forced offline. Given this connection between maintenance and business success, it becomes increasingly clear that any decisions that can improve the former are likely to benefit the latter. Proper lubrication can therefore prove an effective means of pushing business forward due to its positive impact on equipment performance. Whether it’s ring belt cleanliness or cylinder liner protection, safeguarding your engine against the wear and contamination that modern operating conditions can cause, is one important way that lubrication can maintain equipment health and efficiency. Not only can this reduce the need for costly maintenance, but it helps to keep equipment working at peak productivity, and therefore, peak profitability. Modern engines are designed by OEMs to produce an extremely high output. If a lubricant can match this intensity by providing an extended oil life, then operators have a much better chance of maintaining a reliable and efficient process. The longer the oil life, the better your maintenance staff can plan equipment schedules, and the more cost-effective the whole operation can become. With sustainability more important than ever, operators can contribute to their environmental targets – and avoid financial penalties – by ensuring their system is as efficient as it possibly can be. Targeting all areas of your system, from heat recovery boilers to intercoolers, a quality lubricant will help deliver the thermal and pressure stability that is needed for consistent and efficient performance. The combination of adequate protection, extended oil life and overall efficiency lessens the likelihood of unplanned downtime. However, we know that sometimes downtime is necessary. The right lubricant – alongside effective lubrication services – allows for machinery to be taken offline at your discretion, ensuring maintenance can be performed safely and cost-effectively when it most suits. End-to-End Engine Solutions Overcome the combined pressures of intense operating conditions and advanced engine designs, with better informed maintenance decisions. Products and Services Without a robust maintenance strategy, your operations risk backfiring. Put the right measures in place with our portfolio of engine oils and services. LubeAnalyst Provide your equipment with the regular health check it needs to maintain peak performance over its entire lifetime. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engine Oils With ultra-extended oil life and excellent deposit handling, find out how Shell Mysella is up to the challenge of even the most demanding of operating conditions. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Engineering at the Extreme Wherever in the world energy is in high demand, sustaining a continual stream of power is imperative. The ebb and flow of electricity isn’t only influenced by population concentration and growth. Variant temperatures – from extreme highs to unimaginable lows – place a heavy burden on the power grid and must be overcome to ensure a consistent stream isn’t disrupted. These extreme weather conditions also highlight why onsite personnel must keep on top of seasonal changes too. Travelling to some of the world’s most remote and hazardous locations, power engineers endure and adapt to settings very few humans will experience in their lifetime. Whether it is temperatures upward of 48oC in the Middle East or sub-zero conditions in the Siberian wilderness, engine lubrication is essential to avoid production stall or downtime and the engineer must often demonstrate extraordinary levels of endurance to ensure power output goes uninterrupted when exposed to these unforgiving climates. Coping with these factors when completing a task to the highest quality and in good time requires effective maintenance strategies and can benefit from the aid of an expert consultant who knows the location well and can guide you every step of the way. For example, maintaining a continuous operation will benefit from a reduction in operational downtime and means there also needs to be an emphasis on maximising the life expectancy of plant equipment to optimise power output. Research shows that three-quarters of the industry insists prolonging plant life is a high priority within their business1. By extending equipment lifespan, operators can manage operations more cost-effectively, helping to protect the bottom line. For instance, extreme temperatures require the use of lubricants with excellent thermal stability to maintain power engines situated in some of the earth’s most hostile environments and is an area where Shell Lubricants can advise. Engines run differently in adverse weather conditions compared to those experienced during the design phase, and with the additional pressures extreme hot and cold temperatures place on consumer electricity demand, engineers are often required to adapt more frequently to engine capacity in volatile climates. To sustain effective equipment maintenance, Shell Lubricants’ expert consultants are on hand to liaise with power engineers, whose day-to-day challenges can change drastically, and provide operational advice when working at key sites; whether inside a busy engine room one week, or in complete solitude the next. As power providers attempt to reach more isolated regions of the planet, this is also making harder-to-reach destinations tougher to navigate – where additional travel duration increases the engineer’s time spent away from home. The appetite for power is greater than ever, especially when businesses are transitioning to leaner and smarter factories where raising productivity and lowering production costs are key priorities to remaining competitive. However, even with the best operators in control, harsh conditions at the power source can cause the lights to occasionally go out and leave the consumer wondering what went wrong. Therefore, in a connected world constantly switched on, the energy customer can take for granted their access to power and raises the market’s expectations. To sustain these expectations, it takes a special group of people behind the scenes to deliver on the increasing pressure on the power grid and are often called upon at unsociable hours – day or night, weekend or weekday – to address a faulty engine. To do this, they must adapt to different work environments quickly and are expected to bring themselves up to speed on the eccentricities of each location, adding a sense of professionalism and pride to their roles, and, in some places, a patience for whatever the environment will throw at them. 1Based on a survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, of 350 power sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to April 2018. Shell Argina – Power Engine Oils Shell Argina is designed for use in heavy fuel (LSFO & HSFO). Shell Gadinia – Power Engine Oils Shell Gadinia meets the needs of engines burning distillates and liquid biofuels. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engines Oil The Shell Mysella range of gas-engine oils has been developed to deliver optimum value to equipment operators through enhanced wear protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. Power of Partnerships Discover how we can help you solve challenges and increase your business performance. Shell Expertise Discover more ways to optimise your business operations and make your ambitions a reality. Optimising Expertise Nurturing an engineering workforce that understands the value of a resilient and reliable power engine is vital for businesses to remain competitive. Prioritising operational and maintenance efficiencies helps to avoid unnecessary equipment downtime that can generate avoidable costs. With data sharing and analytics becoming more readily available, the role of the onsite engineer is evolving, meaning now is a prime time to focus on building expertise and upskilling staff. This brings us to a two-fold approach: firstly, ensuring current maintenance best practice is understood and training is provided. And secondly, a start to shifting types of expertise sharing, including skills that offer an enhanced, hands-on knowledge of data-driven maintenance techniques in the power generation sector. There is a clear demand for increased levels of training, with up to two-thirds of the power industry believing a lack of staff expertise plays a part in equipment breakdowns1. This lack of understanding is further highlighted by a majority of companies believing effective equipment maintenance can generate savings (84%), but almost half admitting it isn’t a priority in their business until a breakdown occurs (44%). Lubrication expertise is a key part of this with 83% thinking maintenance staff would benefit from additional lubrication training. Shell Lubricants provides expert tutorials on how to improve operations through proactive maintenance strategies. This helps ensure that the engine and engineer are working in sync and affords the industry a stronger knowledge-base and the tools needed to retain optimum engine reliability. When it comes to optimising on newly available technologies, there is a growing expectation on engineers to analyse and share data available to them when considering ways to make oil go further. "83% think maintenance staff would benefit from additional lubrication training" Equipping the workforce with the knowledge to do this is part of Shell Lubricants’ commitment to future power generation. No longer can the power sector simply understand how an engine works and what to do when it isn’t. We are coming into an age when true predictive maintenance really is possible. By gaining a wider view of the energy ecosystem, incremental changes to an active plant means the power engineer can reduce oil consumption whether by predetermining a fault in its operation before it shuts down or, on the other hand, predicting a spike in electricity demand from the grid. To assist engineers in this transition, oil sensor technology and predictive analytics provides data that shapes more strategic, cost-saving methods for engine productivity. Data capturing methods like these, which measure engine lubrication and engine corrosion, can help the engineer lower an engine’s daily oil consumption and reduce its oil change intervals. For example, Shell’s Oil Life Extension Tool is a proprietary Shell Lubricants programme that predicts the degradation of oil and reductions of the total base number (TBN) for oils running in heavy-fuel oil engines. The calculated trend of the TBN can in turn provide the basis for calculating the volume of regular partial oil change – a process also known as ‘sweetening’. This approach helps to maintain the engine’s oil levels and will reduce or eliminate the need for engine shutdown during an oil change. By adopting this internal programme based on data gathered across a large network client base, Shell Lubricants is able to teach and advise power engineers around the world of the best practices in the industry. 1 Based on a survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, of 350 power sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to April 2018. Shell Argina – Power Engine Oils Shell Argina is designed for use in heavy fuel (LSFO & HSFO). Shell Gadinia – Power Engine Oils Shell Gadinia meets the needs of engines burning distillates and liquid biofuels. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engines Oil The Shell Mysella range of gas-engine oils has been developed to deliver optimum value to equipment operators through enhanced wear protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. Power of Partnerships Discover how we can help you solve challenges and increase your business performance. Shell Expertise Discover more ways to optimise your business operations and make your ambitions a reality. Disclaimers: 1. Warranty conditions apply. 2. Based on industry standard corrosion testing. 3. Based on ASTM D2893 testing. 4. Shell Omala S5 Wind 320 gear oil was tested for 50,000 cycles in a Hydac multi-pass test-rig using 3µm filter material and retained anti-foam performance, longer than every competitor oil, which all failed after 5,000 cycles. 5. “Carbon neutral” indicates that Shell has engaged in a transaction where an amount of CO₂ equivalent to the CO₂e amount associated with the raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution, usage and end-of-life of the Lubricants has been avoided as emissions through the protection of natural ecosystems or removed from the atmosphere through a nature-based process. CO₂e (CO₂ equivalent) refers to CO₂, CH₄, N₂O. Shell Omala The main gearbox is central to a wind turbine’s performance. Discover how Shell gear oils can protect the main gearbox in addition to yaw and pitch gearboxes. Shell Gadus Protect your blade bearings, main bearing, and open gear systems with our specially designed, high-performing wind turbine greases. Shell Tellus From brake controls to rotation settings, hydraulic systems help regulate a wind turbine’s movement. Shell Tellus can help improve your hydraulic system efficiency. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. WindEurope CEO on why he’s projecting a bright forecast for the future of wind energy Giles Dickson explains how the sector’s growth is being accelerated by digitalisation, and why this can have a direct impact on companies’ decarbonisation efforts. Taking Wind Turbine Maintenance to New Heights As renewables become a more integral part of the energy mix, reliable wind power has never been more important. But building, running and maintaining wind turbines can be an expensive business, made no easier by the remote locations and extreme conditions that operators regularly face. And with the need for more and cleaner solutions worldwide, these challenges are set against a highly competitive backdrop, as a growing number of industry players continue to stake their claim in the wind arena. As a result, there’s little room for error. With both on- and off-shore wind operations in Europe and North America, Shell sees great potential in this renewable power source, but is well aware of the challenges. Wind power operations must be highly efficient to remain cost-effective, placing huge significance on maintenance choices and the results they bring. With strong industry connections and a wealth of sector experience, Shell Lubricant Solutions can help guide your maintenance strategy, through high-quality lubrication and best practice maintenance advice. Product & Services Boost your wind turbine performance with maintenance solutions designed to protect and developed to perform. Forecasting the Future The winds of change are blowing through the industry. Make sure your new equipment is met with equally innovative component care. Preserving Component Lifetime Billions are spent on wind-farm maintenance each year. Are you getting the most value possible from your equipment protection? Efficient Operations Effective gearbox maintenance can help wind power operators optimise for efficiency. Find out how. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. More about Wind Power at Shell Shell sees great potential in offshore and onshore wind, to grow the share of renewables in the power generation mix. Find out more about our current projects. Solutions to Keep Operations Turning Faced with challenging conditions, wind farm owners are under pressure to ensure the machinery at the heart of their operations delivers reliable and efficient performance. Ensuring the components at the heart of wind turbines, particularly the gearbox, are properly maintained is essential to maintain reliable power output. Effective lubrication is a crucial part of this. Selecting the right lubricants and implementing the right maintenance processes can help ensure these vital equipment components are protected from wear and corrosion that could lead to unforeseen downtime. At Shell Lubricant Solutions, we provide a range of lubricants and services that can help to meet these needs and unlock the full potential of your wind operations. Shell Omala The main gearbox is central to a wind turbine’s performance. Discover how Shell gear oils can protect the main gearbox in addition to yaw and pitch gearboxes. Shell Mysella - Stationary Gas Engine Oils Shell’s portfolio of stationary gas engine oils enables you to choose the right lubricant for your equipment to deliver optimum value. Shell Tellus From brake controls to rotation settings, hydraulic systems help regulate a wind turbine’s movement. Shell Tellus can help improve your hydraulic system efficiency. Shell Gadus Protect your blade bearings, main bearing, and open gear systems with our specially designed, high-performing wind turbine greases. Shell Diala Help protect your equipment and ensure efficient operation throughout its lifetime, with advanced transformer oils. Shell Coolants Shell Rotella Extended Life Coolant Nitrite Free is a premium extended life antifreeze that provides improved protection of aluminum components. Shell LubeAnalyst Don’t risk unnecessary downtime by overlooking your gear oil. Discover our oil condition monitoring service that provides insights to improve maintenance practices. Shell LubeAdvisor The right lubrication expertise can prevent your maintenance strategy from being blown off course. Tap into decades of experience with our global maintenance experts. Shell LubeCoach Online or in-person training on lubrication and maintenance practices, delivered by Shell technical experts with substantial in-field experience. End-to-End Wind Power Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Forecasting the Future The winds of change are blowing through the industry. Make sure your new equipment is met with equally innovative component care. Preserving Component Lifetime Billions are spent on wind-farm maintenance each year. Are you getting the most value possible from your equipment protection? Efficient Operations Effective gearbox maintenance can help wind power operators optimise for efficiency. Find out how. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. What will the wind power industry of the future look like? Around the world, we are seeing increasing amounts of legislation encouraging renewable energy use globally, such as wind and solar power. The European Union, for example, set its target for renewable energy usage at 32% by 20301. In China regulators have set a target to achieve 25% of energy from non-fossil fuel sources by 20302. And the Canadian government announced a commitment to generate 90% of the country’s electricity from non-emitting sources by 20303. As the demand for cleaner energy solutions increases and legislature follows suit, the advantages of wind energy are coming to the fore, setting it up to play a key role in the energy mix. To ensure the energy source remains as competitive as possible, the wind energy industry has increased investment in new sites, new technologies and new ways of working. At Shell, we’ve committed to investing USD$2-3 billion per annum in Renewables and Energy Solutions, as part of our target to be a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050.4 All the signs are that wind is taking off in a big way. This has given way to a plethora of new innovations designed to create more efficient, more powerful operations. 5 wind power innovations set to change the industry World’s most powerful wind turbine Developed by GE Renewable Energy, the Haliade-X wind turbine is the world’s most powerful offshore wind turbine5. Standing at 260 metres tall, with 107-metre long blades, it features a 60-64% capacity factor above industry standard. One Haliade-X 14 MW turbine can generate up to 74 GWh of gross annual energy production, saving up to 52,000 metric tons of CO2, which is the equivalent of the emissions generated by 11,000 vehicles6 in one year. Subsidy-free wind farms are gaining traction A 2020 study of all European offshore wind installations since 2006 concluded that recent cost reductions may soon mean that newer offshore wind installations will generate electricity at prices that mean government subsidies are no longer required.7 Stanford develops water-based battery Researchers from Stanford created a water-based battery that, when scaled, will store more power more efficiently than current technologies. And it’s being specifically designed for use in the wind and solar power sectors. Floating wind power Floating offshore wind technology has made great advances in recent years. The Hywind project in Scotland, located 24km offshore with turbines floating on buoyant concrete-and-steel keels, generates enough electricity for more than 20,000 homes. Other floating wind projects are being built in Europe and Japan. IceWind Turbines Designed to perform in extremely low temperatures and high winds, these Icelandic turbines have also been developed with aesthetics in mind, reducing the visual impact of turbines and with almost silent running to reduce noise and impact on wildlife. New innovations, new equipment, new maintenance needs The bigger turbines, bigger blades, and more remote locations that we see being used in the examples above all pose challenges to turbine maintenance. Proactive and effective maintenance is now more important than ever to protect high-value equipment. Shell Lubricant Solutions experts and engineers work onsite and in the lab, collaborating with wind turbine technicians and OEMs throughout the world, to develop industry-leading wind turbine lubricants that meet the turbine maintenance requirements of tomorrow. Specifically designed for use on wind turbine bearings, gearboxes, and other moving parts, our products are designed to work in challenging environments, with temperatures ranging from -30 - +50C. As wind farms and wind turbines get bigger, more powerful and more sophisticated, Shell Lubricant Solutions can help reduce unplanned equipment downtime, cutting avoidable costs and increasing wind turbine power output, no matter where your wind farm is or what environment it operates in. 1 https://ec.europa.eu/energy/topics/renewable-energy/renewable-energy-directive/overview_en 2 http://www.xinhuanet.com/politics/leaders/2020-12/12/c_1126853600.htm (Chinese) 3 https://www.canada.ca/en/services/environment/weather/climatechange/climate-action/powering-future-clean-energy.html 4 https://www.shell.com/media/news-and-media-releases/2021/shell-accelerates-drive-for-net-zero-emissions-with-customer-first-strategy.html 5 https://www.ge.com/renewableenergy/wind-energy/offshore-wind/haliade-x-offshore-turbine 6 According to wind conditions on a typical German North Sea site 7 https://cleantechnica.com/2020/07/30/uk-offshore-wind-may-soon-be-subsidy-free/ Shell Omala The main gearbox is central to a wind turbine’s performance. Discover how Shell gear oils can protect the main gearbox in addition to yaw and pitch gearboxes. Shell Tellus From brake controls to rotation settings, hydraulic systems help regulate a wind turbine’s movement. Shell Tellus can help improve your hydraulic system efficiency. Shell Mysella - Stationary Gas Engine Oils Shell’s portfolio of stationary gas engine oils enables you to choose the right lubricant for your equipment to deliver optimum value. End-to-End Wind Power Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Product & Services Boost your wind turbine performance with maintenance solutions designed to protect and developed to perform. Efficient Operations Effective gearbox maintenance can help wind power operators optimise for efficiency. Find out how. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Wind Power We ensure wind power is as competitive as possible so that its contribution to the energy mix can increase. True Cost of Wind Turbine Maintenance For wind turbines operating in remote locations, whether that is in mountainous regions or off-shore, emergency repairs or regular maintenance checks – such as oil changes –come at varying levels of expense and frequency. To put the financial ramifications into perspective, the industry spends up to $8 billion on wind-farm maintenance, globally1. Around 20% of the budget on any given wind project accounts for operational costs2, including 1,200 incidents of gearbox failure, which sets the industry back $300,000 - 500,000 per breakdown3. Considering the high number of issues that demand attention, it can be easy to focus on the immediate cost-savings and look past the potential benefits of optimising operations to the company’s bottom line. An example of this is gearbox maintenance, where opting for a lower-grade lubricant may save on short-term costs, but risks reducing the wind turbine’s overall efficiency and can raise the likelihood of failure. To combat this, Shell Lubricant Solutions offers a variety of technologically advanced lubricants to protect mechanical equipment and extend maintenance intervals. For example, Shell Omala S5 Wind 320 is a high-performance gearbox oil that comes with a market-leading 10-year warranty. This gives customers peace of mind that fewer oil changes are likely to be made during a wind turbine’s lifecycle, which can help generate productivity gains. The product is also now carbon neutral4, to support customers in meeting their own ambitions to address emissions. Beyond high-quality lubricants, Shell Lubricant Solutions experts can also help operators improve the company’s Total Cost of Ownership by advising on best maintenance practices. Shell LubeAnalyst oil condition monitoring service, for example, can help stop potential failures in their tracks. Find out more from the link below. 1 Wind Turbine Operations and Maintenance Market Analysis By Application (Onshore and Offshore), By Region (North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, MEA), And Segment Forecasts, 2018 – 2025. June 2017. Grand View Research. 2 Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring: State-of-the-Art Review, New Trends, and Future Challenges. Pierre Tchakoua, René Wamkeue, Mohand Ouhrouche, Fouad Slaoui-Hasnaoui, Tommy Andy Tameghe and Gabriel Ekemb. Energies 2014, 7, 2595-2630; doi:10.3390/en7042595. 3 Special Report: Grinding Gearboxes – Better Call Roy, 2 February 2014, Roy Munoz, G-Cube 4 “Carbon neutral” indicates that Shell has engaged in a transaction where an amount of CO₂ equivalent to the CO₂e amount associated with the raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution, usage and end-of-life of the Lubricants has been avoided as emissions through the protection of natural ecosystems or removed from the atmosphere through a nature-based process. CO₂e (CO₂ equivalent) refers to CO₂, CH₄, N₂O. End-to-End Wind Power Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Product & Services Boost your wind turbine performance with maintenance solutions designed to protect and developed to perform. Shell Omala The main gearbox is central to a wind turbine’s performance. Discover how Shell gear oils can protect the main gearbox in addition to yaw and pitch gearboxes. Shell LubeAnalyst Don’t risk unnecessary downtime by overlooking your gear oil. Discover our oil condition monitoring service that provides insights to improve maintenance practices. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Wind Power Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Carbon Neutral Lubricants by Shell Learn more about our extended range of carbon neutral lubricants, designed to make it easier for customers to make sustainable choices. NGC and Shell Technology Cooperation Agreement Following a technology cooperation agreement in 2019, NGC and Shell (Shanghai) Technology Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Shell) have worked closely together in a variety of areas, including: Renewable energy technology R&D Energy utilisation and equipment intelligence management Power exchange and technology co-development Communication of the benefits of effective lubrication solutions for wind power gearboxes and power transmission systems NGC and Shell have established a solid foundation for cooperation, with Shell providing high performance gear oil for the yaw and pitch gearboxes of NGC for over a decade. The two companies have also conducted multiple joint technical seminars and product trials which showcased the importance of effective lubrication management and how it can provide efficient solutions for wind power drives. Mr. Gary Sun, Technical Director of NGC, indicated that NGC is steering its core direction towards renewable energy, along with energy-saving and energy efficiency technologies development. The company’s mission and vision of "Geared for a Better Future" is a perfect match for Shell's renewable energy development strategy. Troy Chapman, Vice President, Global B2B and OEM Marketing, Shell, said that the technology cooperation with NGC is the "blossom and fruit" of years of collaboration between the two companies, and part of Shell’s strategy to deliver more and cleaner energy while lowering Total Cost of Ownership for wind farm operators. The increasing demand for wind power investment in China provides significant business opportunities to facilitate further growth – also stimulated by the strategy of "One Belt and One Road" – the global development strategy adopted by the Chinese government involving infrastructure development and investments in the wind power industry. NGC and Shell will continue to cooperate extensively in the field of renewable energy technology development to advocate new energy efficiency utilisation that can help the wind power industry achieve new heights when it comes to: Equipment manufacturing Aftermarket operation Turbine maintenance End-to-End Wind Power Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Product & Services Boost your wind turbine performance with maintenance solutions designed to protect and developed to perform. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Wind Power Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Getting Your Wind Turbines in Gear Wind turbine design alone goes only so far to optimising blade rotation. The gearbox plays a crucial role in keeping the turbine operating at the speed necessary to maintain a cost-efficient flow of power drawn from the world’s atmosphere. Gearbox optimisation can help unlock the full potential of a wind turbine’s efficiency and ensure that the energy it captures is stored and distributed resourcefully. Protecting the heart of the machine If a gearbox breaks down, the wind turbine is out of action, which can lead to expensive repairs and unwanted downtime. Proper lubrication is important to the maintenance and upkeep of the whole operation, since it helps eradicate harmful pressures like surface fatigue – or micropitting – and bearing failure. The importance of lubrication As an expert partner, Shell Lubricant Solutions can help demonstrate how lubrication could improve wind-turbine effectiveness through advanced gearbox maintenance, and how a high-performance lubricant can help to extend the lifespan of the gearbox. For example, Shell Omala S5 Wind 320 is a synthetic wind turbine gear oil designed to help lessen gear and bearing damage, while delivering exceptional lubrication performance, increased efficiency, and improving the reliability of the gearbox. With a highly diverse operating temperature range, the oil is designed to operate effectively under severe operating conditions and in extreme climates. Its advanced formulation provides enhanced protection1 - up to 14 times better corrosion prevention than a key competitor product2 – to help avoid unplanned downtime and the associated repair costs. Shell Omala S5 Wind also has excellent performance against yellow metal materials which makes it fit for purpose as well as for new plain bearing gearbox designs. The oil also has a 10-year warranty, meaning the gearbox requires only one oil change rather than the industry-standard two during the turbine’s lifecycle. All of this adds up to helping ensure reliable operations, while managing total cost of ownership. 1 In comparison to a conventional mineral oil 2 Tested by Shell Lubricants Technology with ASTM D2893 against Exxon Mobil SHC XMP 320 End-to-End Wind Power Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Product & Services Boost your wind turbine performance with maintenance solutions designed to protect and developed to perform. Shell Omala The main gearbox is central to a wind turbine’s performance. Discover how Shell gear oils can protect the main gearbox in addition to yaw and pitch gearboxes. Shell LubeAnalyst Don’t risk unnecessary downtime by overlooking your gear oil. Discover our oil condition monitoring service that provides insights to improve maintenance practices. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Wind Power Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Powering Progress in WindOur purpose is to power progress together with more and cleaner energy solutions, which is why we actively support our customers in achieving their sustainability goals, without sacrificing business performance. Discover more from Shell Lubricant Solutions for Wind End-to-end solutions From gear oils to blade bearing greases, we are committed to working with customers on specific lubricant applications to meet the needs of each individual wind site. Carbon neutral lubricants¹ Our full portfolio of wind turbine lubricants is now carbon neutral, helping you meet your business’ sustainability goals without sacrificing operational performance. A strategic partner in wind We operate across the power value chain: from generating electricity, to storing it, and distributing to customers to power their businesses. Supported by a team with more than 20 years of experience in onshore and offshore wind development. The #1 lubricants supplier globally For 15 consecutive years, Shell has been the leading global supplier of finished lubricants, according to Kline & Company’s market analysis and assessment. COMING UP: A Wind energy based quiz with exciting prizes to be won – Stay tuned! Meet the experts Get acquainted with the Shell experts who will be attending WindEurope Electric City 2021. 1"Carbon neutral" indicates that Shell has engaged in a transaction where an amount of CO₂ equivalent to the CO₂e amount associated with the raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution, and end-of-life of the product has been avoided as emissions through the protection of natural ecosystems or removed from the atmosphere through a natural ecosystem or removed from the atmosphere through a nature-based process. CO₂e (CO₂ equivalent) refers to CO₂, methane, and nitrogen oxides. The Changing face of Wind Turbine Maintenance Everyone was wowed earlier in the year when Aerones released some amazing footage of its drones de-icing the blades of a wind turbine. Eye-catching and exciting as this was, what it really signalled was that Industry 4.0 has arrived in the wind sector. Drone maintenance is already starting to make a big impact elsewhere in the energy industry. Shell uses drones to inspect flaring stacks at some of Europe’s biggest gas plants and to check gas-safety levels at natural-gas terminals. So as the push for more renewable energy sources continues, it seems fitting that the wind sector is up next for the data-based maintenance revolution. Wind turbines are often located in remote, hostile environments, so an effective proactive maintenance strategy is key to minimising unnecessary human-machine intervention and reducing costs and safety hazards - and drone technologies can help to achieve this. We take a look at how: 1. By making turbine inspections easier, safer and faster Companies are already using drones to inspect and carry out testing in a way that’s faster and less risky, even in extreme environments. And in combination with artificial intelligence, drones can foster a data-led approach to maintenance. With the latest AIs processing thousands of images while the drone is still in the air, engineers can fault find faster with greater accuracy, without exposing themselves to harsh weather conditions or unnecessary risks. The combination of stable and sophisticated airborne drones with AI and advanced wind farm analytics is set to revolutionise turbine maintenance. 2. Carrying out routine maintenance tasks Applying a repair to the right point of a 116-foot blade that’s 300 feet up in the air is never an easy proposition for a human engineer. Now tape developer 3M is teaming up with drone specialists Camp Six Labs to develop drones that can apply tape, while the operators keep their feet on the ground. 3. Deliver heavy payloads The Griff 350 can deliver payloads of up to 330lbs. These heavy-duty drones can greatly simplify the task of getting tools and equipment to the right part of the turbine, making maintenance of even the tallest wind turbines easier and cutting the risk of injury. 4. To fight turbine fires Fire is one of the leading hazards in the wind-power industry. And fire fighting in remote locations at high altitudes can be extremely challenging. Using specialised fire-fighting drones, crews can be on site and take effective action faster than ever before. It is clear that technologies such as drones are bringing a plethora of new and more efficient ways to tackle maintenance challenges. But to achieve the potential savings attainable, it is essential is that this is paired with complimentary measures such as proper equipment lubrication. A recent Shell Lubricants survey1 showed that 73% of power industry professionals thought using Industry 4.0 technologies would lead to fewer equipment breakdowns, so we can see there is engagement with moving the industry forward. However, as these technologies become more commonplace, lubrication must remain a crucial part of the maintenance regime as 43% admitted often experiencing breakdowns as a result of ineffective lubrication. The use of high quality lubricants is vital to helping minimise downtime and increasing wind turbine output, and at Shell, our specialists work closely with customers to ensure that they have not only the product, but that they are provided with the training and expertise they need to better handle lubricant products to optimise operations. By combining the best possible consumables and components with emerging technologies, AI fault-finding engines, and intelligent sensors using big data to connect, the industry will be able to improve wind turbine efficiency just as demand for wind power booms. 1 This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 350 interviews with power sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job across 7 countries (USA, China, India, Germany, Russia, Indonesia and the UK) from March to April 2018. For more information, please visit www.edelmanintelligence.com Shell Omala - Gear oils The longer an oil’s life, the less fluid maintenance your equipment requires, so it can continue to operate without interruption. Shell Gadus - Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Shell Tellus – Hydraulic Fluid To meet the challenges of a wide range of hydraulic equipment and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of fluids that enables you to choose a product to best match your needs Power of Partnerships Discover how we can help you solve challenges and increase your business performance. Shell Expertise Discover more ways to optimise your business operations and make your ambitions a reality. What will the Wind Power Industry of the Future Look Like We are seeing increasing amounts of legislation encouraging renewable energy use globally, such as wind and solar power. In June 2018 for example, the European Union increased its renewables target to 32% by 20301, and in China regulators have set a renewable energy target of 15% by 20202. The Canadian government has also recently said that all federal institutions will be powered 100% by renewable electricity no later than 20253. As the demand for cleaner energy solutions increases and legislature follows suit, the advantages of wind energy are coming to the fore, setting it up to play a key role in the energy mix. To ensure the energy source remains as competitive as possible, the wind energy industry has increased investment in new sites, new technologies and new ways of working. At Shell, we’ve committed to investing USD$1-2 billion per annum in New Energies including wind power, biofuels and electric4. We’ve also committed to reducing our net carbon footprint by 20% between now and 20355. All the signs are that wind is taking off in a big way. This has given way to a plethora of new innovations designed to create more efficient, more powerful operations. 5 wind power innovations set to change the industry 1. World’s most powerful wind turbine: In February this year, GE Renewables announced plans to develop the Haliade-X, a 12MW turbine that will cost USD$400 million and take five years to develop. It is set to produce 45% more energy than any other offshore turbine available today. 2. UK builds its first subsidy-free wind farm: the Withernwick II extension project is the first subsidy-free wind farm in the UK. This is one of several subsidy-free projects in Europe, with analysts reporting that the industry is on the cusp of a cost efficiency breakthrough. 3. Stanford develops water-based battery: researchers have created a water-based battery that, when scaled, will store more power more efficiently than current technologies. And it’s being specifically designed for use in the wind and solar power sectors. 4. Floating wind power: Aerodyn Engineering won innovation of the year in Wind Power Monthly’s annual awards. The integrated twin-rotor concept is the company’s radical vision of next generation large-scale floating wind power plants. 5. IceWind Turbines: designed to perform in extremely low temperatures and high winds, these Icelandic turbines have also been developed with aesthetics in mind, reducing the visual impact of turbines and with almost silent running to reduce noise and impact on wildlife. New innovations, new equipment, new maintenance needs Wind turbine maintenance is a challenge in itself, with their remote and often hostile locations. Add to this the bigger turbines, bigger blades, harsher winds, and so on, that we see being used to power up the sector in the examples above, and it’s clear that the industry must recognise that proactive and effective maintenance is now more important than ever to protect this new high value equipment. Shell Lubricants experts and engineers have worked onsite, and, in the lab, collaborating with wind turbine technicians and OEMs throughout the world, to develop industry-leading wind turbine lubricants that meet the turbine maintenance requirements of tomorrow. Specifically designed for use on wind turbine bearings, gearboxes, and other moving parts, our products are designed to work in challenging environments, with temperatures ranging from -30 - +50C. As wind farms and wind turbines get bigger, more powerful and more sophisticated, Shell Lubricants can help reduce unplanned equipment downtime, cutting avoidable costs and increasing wind turbine power output, no matter where your wind farm is or what environment it operates in. 1 https://www.reuters.com/article/us-eu-energy/eu-agrees-32-percent-renewables-target-for-2030-idUSKBN1JA0W5 2 https://www.reeep.org/projects/china-roadmap-30-renewable-energy-penetration-2030 3 https://solarcanadaconference.ca/news/government-of-canada-to-be-powered-by-100-renewable-electricity-by-2025/ 4 P.32, Energy Transition Report, Shell 5 P.53, Energy Transition Report, Shell Shell Omala - Gear oils The longer an oil’s life, the less fluid maintenance your equipment requires, so it can continue to operate without interruption. Shell Gadus - Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Shell Tellus – Hydraulic Fluid To meet the challenges of a wide range of hydraulic equipment and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of fluids that enables you to choose a product to best match your needs Power of Partnerships Discover how we can help you solve challenges and increase your business performance. Shell Expertise Discover more ways to optimise your business operations and make your ambitions a reality. Getting your Wind Turbines in Gear Unlike most primary energy sources, wind as a body or mass is harder to quantify due to its erratic nature – which makes it even more challenging to capture. This level of dynamism means there is a limited amount of kinetic energy that a wind turbine can seize before the rest of it is driven downstream. Despite this, its abundance is the reason why wind power is being pursued as a potentially self-sufficient source of clean energy as we move globally towards meeting new domestic and supranational emissions targets. The productivity of a wind turbine varies from one day to the next and cannot rely only on its shape, structure and agility to produce as much wind power as it possibly can. Design alone, therefore, goes only so far to optimising blade rotation and requires the support of a gearbox to keep the turbine operating at the speed necessary to maintain a cost-efficient flow of power drawn from the world’s atmosphere. To ensure that wind remains a driving force in the transition to cleaner energy sources, increasing the wind turbine’s efficiency through measures such as gearbox optimisation, will be key to unlocking its potential and can help to ensure that the energy it does capture is stored and distributed resourcefully and doesn’t go to waste further down the value chain. At a wind turbine’s centre is the gearbox that keeps the turbine turning when wind picks up and loses momentum. So, if it breaks down, the wind turbine is out of action which can lead to expensive repairs and downtime. Therefore, lubrication is important to the maintenance and upkeep of the whole operation. Effective Lubrication helps to eradicate certain pressures on the gearbox, including surface fatigue – commonly known as micropitting – as well as bearing failure, which, if ignored, can cause costly repairs and reduce the wind turbine’s lifespan. As solar and wind power grow in influence during the transition towards a mosaic of energy solutions, wind turbines must operate as close to their optimal level of efficiency as possible if the sector is going to compete for increasing demand from the power consumer. Considering this, Shell Lubricants has the expertise and support to help increase gearbox efficiency. As an expert partner, its team demonstrates how lubrication can improve wind-turbine effectiveness through advanced gearbox maintenance, and how a high-performance lubricant can help to extend the lifespan of the gearbox. For example, Shell Omala S5 advanced synthetic wind turbine gear oil has a 10 year warranty and means that the gearbox requires only one oil change rather than the industry-standard two during the turbine’s lifecycle. Putting this into perspective, improved and trusted lubrication allows maintenance staff to spend less time attending to the efficiency of the turbine’s transmission and place more effort on sustaining its structural integrity, which is an important part of keeping the turbine’s blades turning. As lubrication goes further and the number of oil changes are reduced, wind power will become easier to manage and bolster their cause during the international drive towards more sustainable forms of power. Shell Omala - Gear oils The longer an oil’s life, the less fluid maintenance your equipment requires, so it can continue to operate without interruption. Shell Gadus - Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Shell Tellus – Hydraulic Fluid To meet the challenges of a wide range of hydraulic equipment and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of fluids that enables you to choose a product to best match your needs Power of Partnerships Discover how we can help you solve challenges and increase your business performance. Shell Expertise Discover more ways to optimise your business operations and make your ambitions a reality. True Cost of Wind Turbine Maintenance It comes as no surprise that the wind-power industry’s worth relies on the speed, power and availability of its source. Without wind, the wind turbine would simply not be in business, which means the sector is heavily dependent on natural weather variation to offer maximum value. The weather, however, doesn’t only dictate the level of power generation produced by wind farms, but also influences the best practices engineers choose to maintain their asset; opening and closing windows of opportunity to perform safe and cost-effective repairs. Meteorologists can predict atmospheric changes with a remarkable degree of accuracy and it is these measurements that help operators to optimise wind-generated power and its storage. This is also true of emergency repairs or regulation maintenance checks – such as oil changes – which come at varying levels of expense and frequency, depending on weather constraint and also the quality of the company’s existing lubricant. Extreme wind conditions in remote locations make it increasingly difficult for maintenance engineers to do their job, so ensuring that oil changes are carried out under controlled measures and emergency repairs are kept to a minimum is just as important for the welfare of personnel as it is for equipment longevity and profitability. To put this into perspective, the industry spends up to $8 billion on wind-farm maintenance, globally1, and is difficult to plug, especially when forecasts show that this figure is set to increase by 11% annually until 20252. Around 20% of the budget on any given wind project accounts for operational costs3, including 1,200 incidents of gearbox failure, which sets the industry back $300,000-500,000 per breakdown4. Considering the high number of issues that need the attention of the power operator, it can be easy to look past the financial incentives of optimising operations and the benefits they present the company’s bottom line. An example of this involves instances of gearbox failure. Where maintenance staff may opt for a lower-grade lubricant to save on short-term cost, this approach risks an increase in the number of oil changes over the wind turbine’s 20-year lifespan, and therefore reduces the wind turbine’s overall efficiency. Protecting the wind turbine equipment with a cheaper and less-effective lubricant may offer short-term cost-savings but may put the wind turbine at a greater risk of breakdown, which come at a greater expense for the owner/operator in the long-term. Not only does Shell Lubricants offer a variety of high-performance products that reduce sweetening periods, but its team of experts also help operators to improve the company’s Total Cost of Ownership by advising on best maintenance practices. While wind speed is key to wind power, it also summons the need for smarter engineering – including the use of high-performance lubrication – designed to increase the overall efficiency and preservation of the wind turbine. 1 Wind Turbine Operations and Maintenance Market Analysis By Application (Onshore and Offshore), By Region (North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, MEA), And Segment Forecasts, 2018 – 2025. June 2017. Grand View Research. 2 Wind Turbine Operations and Maintenance Market Analysis By Application (Onshore and Offshore), By Region (North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, MEA), And Segment Forecasts, 2018 – 2025. June 2017. Grand View Research. 3 Wind Turbine Condition Monitoring: State-of-the-Art Review, New Trends, and Future Challenges. Pierre Tchakoua, René Wamkeue, Mohand Ouhrouche, Fouad Slaoui-Hasnaoui, Tommy Andy Tameghe and Gabriel Ekemb. Energies 2014, 7, 2595-2630; doi:10.3390/en7042595. 4 Special Report: Grinding Gearboxes – Better Call Roy, 2 February 2014, Roy Munoz, G-Cube Shell Omala - Gear oils The longer an oil’s life, the less fluid maintenance your equipment requires, so it can continue to operate without interruption. Shell Gadus - Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Shell Tellus – Hydraulic Fluid To meet the challenges of a wide range of hydraulic equipment and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of fluids that enables you to choose a product to best match your needs Shell Expertise Discover more ways to optimise your business operations and make your ambitions a reality. Powering a Successful Energy Transition From wind turbines, to stationary engines, transformers and turbines, the equipment powering grids in every corner of the world is under pressure to perform, 24/7, to keep our world moving. Adding to this pressure, is an ever-growing demand to reduce the impact on the world with cleaner energy solutions that can help meet the evolving needs of a diverse global population. With decades of experience to call on, Shell Lubricant Solutions is working to help the power sector to reach its full potential. Our lubricants and services help power machinery and empower people, while a strong commitment to innovation and collaboration keep our solutions at the leading edge of today’s industry transformation. Wind Power Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Turbines Generate savings and avoid downtime by using the right turbine oil to protect and optimise your rotating equipment. Stationary Engines Your engines are exposed to increasingly demanding pressures. Our lubricants are formulated to combat the harshest of operating conditions. Find out more. Transmission & Distribution Modern transformers are facing increased loads and higher voltages. Do your lubricants provide the protection they need to perform? Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Selecting the right product for a particular component and set of operational challenges is only one part of the key to unlocking potential Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) savings. It is also important to ensure that the correct amount of product reaches the right surfaces, at the right time and without being contaminated. That means adopting effective lubricant management practices. Customer Collaboration Working together, our technical teams can help to embed these practices in your organisation, and advise on the best products and technical services for your needs. They can also help if you have a lubrication issue, as they have the experience and expertise, backed by a global research and development team, to find a solution. Creating Connections We invest significant resources in developing new power-industry lubricant solutions. Our lubricant research and development teams in our Shanghai, China, Hamburg, Germany, and Houston, USA, technology centres collaborate with a network of experts such as: Technical partnerships with equipment manufacturers to help ensure that our products are optimised for the latest equipment technologies Field trials with customers to validate real-life product performance and to steer the development of future lubricant products Research with academic institutions, such as the University of Manchester, UK, as part of a major European consortium, investigating transformer design and operation, and the influence of oil on ageing and reliability characteristics that could potentially help to revolutionise transformers’ lifespans. Wind Power Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Turbines Generate savings and avoid downtime by using the right turbine oil to protect and optimise your rotating equipment. Stationary Engines Your engines are exposed to increasingly demanding pressures. Our lubricants are formulated to combat the harshest of operating conditions. Find out more. Transmission & Distribution Modern transformers are facing increased loads and higher voltages. Do your lubricants provide the protection they need to perform? Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. The Business Impact of Equipment Maintenance Lubrication isn’t just a necessary requirement for your equipment to work. It can also be a difference-maker when it comes to key operational markers like reliability and energy efficiency. Ultimately, your equipment’s performance is dictated by the health and condition of its internal components. Components that can only be maintained and protected by proper lubrication and the maintenance practices that surround it. Why lubrication is a business decision Considering lubrication as a maintenance issue may be a natural train of thought, but it can often be more effective to frame your lubricant choice as a business decision. Though lubrication often only accounts for a small percentage of a business’ maintenance budget, its impact on your bottom line – by way of preventing downtime and maintaining productivity – is clear and considerable. Are you prioritising equipment health? Furthermore, with equipment replacement often extremely costly in the power industry, there is a huge incentive for businesses to maximise the lifespan of existing machinery. How an external partner can help Taking a reactive approach to equipment maintenance runs the risk of causing unnecessary downtime and incurring unexpected costs. The right partner however – whether an OEM, lubricant supplier or independent maintenance expert – can play a vital role in guiding you towards a more predictive, and ultimately more effective, maintenance strategy. Wind Power Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Turbines Generate savings and avoid downtime by using the right turbine oil to protect and optimise your rotating equipment. Stationary Engines Your engines are exposed to increasingly demanding pressures. Our lubricants are formulated to combat the harshest of operating conditions. Find out more. Transmission & Distribution Modern transformers are facing increased loads and higher voltages. Do your lubricants provide the protection they need to perform? Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. A result that shows the value in upgrading lubrication practices Italian power company Asja Ambiente Italia SpA was operating a series of Jenbacher J420GS engines 24 hours a day and with an oil drain interval (ODI) of 1000 hours. It wanted to trial a new lubrication package to extend its ODI and reduce maintenance time. Solution The Shell Lubricant Solutions team ran a test on one engine to demonstrate the advantages of Shell Mysella S5 S 40, using Shell LubeAnalyst to monitor the condition of the oil inside the engine. After the successful test, this solution was rolled out across the plant, to extend the ODI and synchronise it with scheduled maintenance. This not only aimed to reduce oil consumption, but importantly, to boost equipment uptime. Impact Switching to the new package of products and services: extended the ODI from 1,000 to 2,500 hours streamlined the plant's maintenance schedule, with liner and piston life increasing from 20,000 to 30,000 hours. The reduced spend on consumables and maintenance has seen the company reporting estimated annual savings of US$33,000. The savings indicated are specific to the calculation date and mentioned site. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current products being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices Stationary Gas Engine Oils Shell’s portfolio of stationary gas engine oils enables you to choose the right lubricant for your equipment to deliver optimum value. Oil Condition Monitoring LubeAnalyst uses an oil condition monitoring programme to give your machinery a regular health checkup. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. How Industry Trends Are Affecting Lubrication and Maintenance As global demand for power continues to rise, power operators must be prepared to adapt and react, to ensure reliable and efficient power is maintained as the needs of societies continue to evolve. Changing behaviours within society – the growth of remote work, the rise or fall of urbanisation, an uptake in electric vehicles (EV) – will continue to affect the way electricity must be generated, stored and used. Continued population growth means that these changes will be met with a growing demand for more power globally. All of which serves to highlight the need for proper lubrication to ensure equipment can adapt to new supply and demand realities. As supply and demand changes, so do the pressures and requirements of the grid. As power becomes more localised in many markets, there is a growing move towards the decentralisation of the grid in order to place the site of power generation closer to that of consumption. In response, smart and micro-grids are becoming more common, meaning equipment operators are more reliant on the data and insights provided by oil condition monitoring services in order to optimise equipment for the job at hand. Entangled among these operational challenges is the equally significant issue of decarbonisation, led by the rise of renewables across the sector. While governments and investors alike are pushing for a quicker transition towards cleaner energy solutions, operators must also be aware of the potential benefits – environmental, financial, and operational – that biodegradable and carbon neutral lubricants can provide. Carbon Neutral Lubricants by Shell Learn more about our extended range of carbon neutral lubricants, designed to make it easier for customers to make sustainable choices. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Shell Diala - Transformer Oils Protect your equipment with oils that use the latest gas-to-liquids technology, making them perfect for the demands of modern transformers. Shell Gadus Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Discover New Perspectives The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. How We’re Helping to Keep the Lights On From homes and businesses to hospitals and schools, each one depends on instant power at the flick of a switch in order to meet the needs of individuals and communities all around the globe. And our energy-intensive modern lifestyles mean demand for reliable power is ever-intensifying. To make this a reality, power operators working in transmission and distribution must be able to rely on the maintenance products and practices that keep their equipment running. Whether that’s ageing equipment operating close to – or beyond – its design limits, or newer machinery that needs greater protection to enable its higher levels of output. At Shell Lubricant Solutions, we can help bring your goals closer in reach, with industry-leading lubricants and expert-led services – a combination that combines innovation and experience to deliver reliable performance on a daily basis. Products & Services With the landscape of the power industry evolving, make sure you have the right transformer maintenance solutions in place. Realising Potential Modern power operations demand maintenance solutions that can combine traditional performance with a reduced environmental impact. Find out more. Upgrading Protection See how the right transformer oil helped Kalla Electrical System set their transformers up for success in the face of increasingly challenging conditions. Empowering Performance As the power industry continues to evolve, learn how GTL Technology can help you improve operational performance. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Solutions Designed to Perform, Day in, Day out Transformers sit at the heart of global transmission and distribution, converting currents and ensuring electricity travels the long distances required to guarantee a safe and successful delivery of power. But with such high voltages, temperatures and costs, it’s important that your maintenance can provide: More Protection – Shell Diala transformer oils offer excellent and lasting electrical insulating properties, while protecting against copper corrosion and paper degradation. Less Impact – Shell Naturelle is a range of biodegradable lubricants that can help you meet the latest regulations while providing peace of mind for those with equipment in environmentally sensitive locations. Greater Value – Get the most from your oil – and your equipment – with our complete toolkit of lubrication services, from oil condition monitoring to staff training. Shell Diala - Transformer Oils Protect your equipment with oils that use the latest gas-to-liquids technology, making them perfect for the demands of modern transformers. Shell Mysella - Stationary Gas Engine Oils Shell’s portfolio of stationary gas engine oils enables you to choose the right lubricant for your equipment to deliver optimum value. Shell LubeAnalyst 30 years of Shell expertise and counting goes into our oil condition monitoring portfolio. See what predictive maintenance could do for your business. Shell LubeAdvisor Deliver real value to your business in the form of technical experience and expertise. Our advisors can help either on-site or over the phone. Shell LubeChat Don’t let uncertainty get in the way of your power operations. Instead, get instant answers to your most pressing lubrication questions. End-to-End Transmission & Distribution Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Realising Potential Modern power operations demand maintenance solutions that can combine traditional performance with a reduced environmental impact. Find out more. Upgrading Protection See how the right transformer oil helped Kalla Electrical System set their transformers up for success in the face of increasingly challenging conditions. Empowering Performance As the power industry continues to evolve, learn how GTL Technology can help you improve operational performance. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Balancing Impact and Output As society shifts towards more and cleaner power solutions, the generation, transmission and consumption of electricity is changing dramatically. These changes – while often beneficial for the end user – raise some specific challenges for power operators, particularly when it comes to electrical transformers. Two noticeable changes are an increased need for power and a rising number of transformers located in environmentally sensitive areas or amidst operationally challenging conditions. While on their own each of these would post significant issues for equipment, together, they demand maintenance solutions that can combine traditional performance with a reduced environmental impact. Meeting the Needs of Increased Power Demands An uptick in renewable energy – solar and offshore wind farms, for example – has led to an increase in the number of power generation sites away from where that power is consumed. The long-distance electricity supply that this requires means higher voltages are often needed to ensure efficient transmission. The modern grid can create stresses for ageing infrastructure – including transformers initially designed for much lower loads and operating temperatures. To combat this, today’s transformer oils must have: High dielectric strength Efficient cooling properties Enhanced oxidation resistance Ensuring Environmental Impact Is Kept to A Minimum But performance alone is often not enough for today’s transformers. Modern equipment is frequently found in environmentally sensitive areas, whether that’s an arctic climate or a protected, woodland area. These conditions come with their own challenges for equipment, maintenance and transformer oil. Part of wider sustainability considerations – such as cradle-to-grave emissions offsetting and recyclability – next-generation transformer oils must therefore be equipped to offer: Suitability for use in environmentally sensitive locations by being readily biodegradable A low pour point, good flow properties and excellent cold temperature performance Compatibility with standard mineral oils, for ease of retrofitting and widespread use End-to-End Transmission & Distribution Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Products & Services With the landscape of the power industry evolving, make sure you have the right transformer maintenance solutions in place. Shell Diala - Transformer Oils Protect your equipment with oils that use the latest gas-to-liquids technology, making them perfect for the demands of modern transformers. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Helping Transformer Manufacturers Conduct Business Without Compromise Kalla Electrical System is a leading transformer manufacturer in Indonesia, providing the equipment needed for large government infrastructure programmes. To meet the demands of their expensive assets – and of the communities their equipment serves – the company needs a transformer oil that has been proven to provide reliable performance and can offer: An extended oil life Operational simplicity High levels of component protection Formed from a gas-to-liquids base oil and approved by global OEMs, Shell Diala S4 ZX-I is designed to help power operators set their transformers up for success in the face of increasingly challenging conditions, courtesy of high oxidation stability, zero sulphur and fewer miscibility concerns. Watch the video below to find out more. End-to-End Transmission & Distribution Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Products & Services With the landscape of the power industry evolving, make sure you have the right transformer maintenance solutions in place. Shell Diala - Transformer Oils Protect your equipment with oils that use the latest gas-to-liquids technology, making them perfect for the demands of modern transformers. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Creating Connections Through Technical Expertise EDF Energy came to Shell for transformer oil advice having had two new transformers installed at their nuclear power plant in the UK. The plant supplies power to 2 million homes and so the team required a transformer oil that would provide long-term reliability, especially given that a failing transformer would cause the entire site to shut down. With the transmission and distribution sector naturally conservative when integrating new products, Shell approached EDF with not only an innovative transformer oil, Shell Diala S4 ZX-I, but also the technical support to ensure it was the right fit for the job at hand. Watch the video below to learn more. End-to-End Transmission & Distribution Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Products & Services With the landscape of the power industry evolving, make sure you have the right transformer maintenance solutions in place. Shell Diala - Transformer Oils Protect your equipment with oils that use the latest gas-to-liquids technology, making them perfect for the demands of modern transformers. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Why GTL Technology Is a Positive Step Towards Greater Productivity Gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology turns natural gas into high-quality base oils for lubricants. For the power sector, and transmission and distribution particularly, GTL-based transformer oils are helping operators to achieve greater reliability and superior performance in several ways: Equipment Performance Compared to conventional oils, GTL-based transformer oils are formulated to provide improved resistance to oil degradation. Their enhanced thermal properties – such as outstanding low temperature flow performance – work to reduce the ageing rate of both oil and insulating paper, while providing excellent performance at a wide range of operating temperatures. Transformer Reliability And because GTL base oils are made from natural gas as opposed to crude oil, they contain none of the impurities found in their more traditional counterparts, as well producing effectively zero sulphur. As a result, they protect transformers from failure by reducing the risk of corrosion and ensuring better efficiency and a longer operational life. Operational Simplicity Finally, they make for a simple switch. GTL oils, like Shell Diala S4 ZX-I, are fully miscible with traditional oils, while adding it to some conventional naphthenic grades can actually improve performance. This compatibility makes changing to a GTL oil much more straightforward, ensuring there doesn’t need to be any pauses in your operations. End-to-End Transmission & Distribution Solutions When it comes to optimising wind power operations, prioritise an effective maintenance strategy. Products & Services With the landscape of the power industry evolving, make sure you have the right transformer maintenance solutions in place. Shell Diala - Transformer Oils Protect your equipment with oils that use the latest gas-to-liquids technology, making them perfect for the demands of modern transformers. Oil Condition Monitoring Take the guesswork out of your oil analysis with an oil condition monitoring service that can be tailored to your needs. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Applications Explore the range of Shell Lubricant products that help maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Contact our expertsMarineWith our comprehensive range lubricants, Shell has a long established reputation for one of the leading innovation in the marine industry. Shell Marine Products is a global sales and marketing business supplying specialised fuels, lubricants and technical support services to the marine industry. Read more about Shell Marine products Our new online chat tool gives you answers to questions about oils and lubes. Find out more about Shell LubeChat Shell LubeAdvisor Our experts can advise you on which oil to use to improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs. Find out more about Shell LubeAdvisor Shell LubeAnalyst This early warning system lets you identify potential oil or equipment failures before they become critical. Find out more about Shell LubeAnalyst Shell LubeCoach We coach your team to deliver better performance through this in-depth lubrication training programme. Find out more about Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeMatch Use this free online service to find the right lubricants for your vehicles and equipment in seconds. Find out more about Shell LubeMatch Shell LubeVideoCheck This sophisticated fibre optic tool lets you inspect the inside of your engine without dismantling it. Find out more about Shell LubeVideoCheck Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Industry Collaboration Construction industry trends come and go. A good partner won’t. See how we can help you get the most out of your people. Maximising Your Output Whether you’re an OEM or a site manager, productivity is paramount. Find out how to unlock new efficiencies by improving your fluid management. 4 Ways to Avoid Construction Delays Keep your building projects on time and on budget with these innovative construction tips. Shell Gadus Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Shell Rimula Heavy-duty Engine Oils Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Get maximum protection for your vehicle operations The Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and automatic transmission lubricants has been developed to provide choice when selecting the right oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations. Hydraulic Oils Advanced hydraulic oils using gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology can help upgrade energy efficiency of construction, manufacturing, or mining operations. Biodegradable Lubricants Shell Naturelle biodegradable lubricants protect customers’ equipment and the sensitive ecosystems in which they operate. LubeAnalyst Health check your oil to keep your machines running. MachineMax Wireless telematics solution that helps companies maximise the profitability of off-highway fleets, using Internet of things (IoT) technologies, cloud computing and machine learning to cut fuel, maintenance and rental costs, reduce carbon emission and improve a site’s productivity. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. A construction site can be an unforgiving place for you and your equipment. The dust, the dirt, the deadlines. It all adds unnecessary pressure to systems that need protection to perform. Though new construction technologies can help empower the industry to meet these demands, emerging construction innovation must be underpinned with the correct foundations to maximise business output and minimise environmental impact. Shell Lubricant Solutions has the products, services and expertise to help you build in a profitable and sustainable way, offering expert guidance on: choosing oils for your lubrication system; implementing predictive maintenance routines; identifying more sustainable solutions like our Shell Naturelle range of oils and greases; and optimising your fleet and site management, so your machines can last as long as what they build. Construction Innovation Building for the future means planning from today. Learn how to make the most of the latest construction technologies and innovations. Preventing Equipment Failure Safeguarding your assets is a business imperative. Discover the link between healthy equipment and a healthy balance sheet. Industry Collaboration Construction industry trends come and go. A good partner won’t. See how we can help you get the most out of your people. Maximising Your Output Whether you’re an OEM or a site manager, productivity is paramount. Find out how to unlock new efficiencies by improving your fluid management. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. As most construction managers would tell you, project delays have long been a challenge for the construction industry. But as technology and capabilities advance, does this still need to be the case? Take a look at some of our top tips for avoiding construction delays: 1. Predictive maintenance The biggest issue with equipment damage is that it often goes unnoticed until it’s too late to avoid a breakdown. So, what if you could foresee issues before they emerged? With predictive maintenance practices – such as oil condition monitoring – you can. By identifying potential issues before they escalate, you can reduce the likelihood of failures, preventing unplanned downtime and reducing costs in the process. 2. Selecting the right tool for the job You can prevent a great deal of equipment issues by simply selecting the most appropriate lubricant for the job, or equipment, at hand. Still an underappreciated part of the productivity equation, lubrication can play a vital role in maintaining the uptime you need to meet demanding deadlines. 3. Upskilling your workforce 76% of construction companies believe that the insufficient expertise of their staff plays a role in equipment breakdowns. With downtime having a direct impact on your ability to meet deadlines, it’s never been clearer that upskilling your workforce can help to upgrade your business. 4. Implementing telematics With so many machines on the move, a construction site can be an easy place to lose efficiencies. An equipment management platform allows you to stay on top of your vehicles and on time for your deliverables. Construction Innovation Building for the future means planning from today. Learn how to make the most of the latest construction technologies and innovations. Preventing Equipment Failure Safeguarding your assets is a business imperative. Discover the link between healthy equipment and a healthy balance sheet. Industry Collaboration Construction industry trends come and go. A good partner won’t. See how we can help you get the most out of your people. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. As Chrissi McCarthy, Managing Director of Constructing Equality, puts it: “construction is an industry of managing people.” At Shell, we work closely with the entire sector – from OEMs to site managers – to ensure knowledge gaps don’t lead to performance gaps. After all, people are a company’s most valuable asset and when they are equipped to deliver results, it helps to build a thriving and sustainable future. Watch Chrissi’s video to learn how you can contribute to a more productive and progressive construction industry environment, by investing in your own people and their futures. Construction Innovation Building for the future means planning from today. Learn how to make the most of the latest construction technologies and innovations. Preventing Equipment Failure Safeguarding your assets is a business imperative. Discover the link between healthy equipment and a healthy balance sheet. Maximising Your Output Whether you’re an OEM or a site manager, productivity is paramount. Find out how to unlock new efficiencies by improving your fluid management. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Construction Total Cost of Ownership The benefits of effective lubrication can lower maintenance costs for vehicles and equipment. Our experts have a proven track record of reducing the total cost of equipment ownership by helping you embrace more efficient lubrication solutions in your operations. There are two key ways to reduce the total cost of ownership in the construction sector; the first is ensuring that you use the most appropriate lubricant for every piece of equipment. The second is implementing effective lubrication management. Lubrication management is critical to the construction industry in particular. 87% of construction companies have experienced unplanned downtime, with the majority of downtime incidents directly related to lubrication issues. Our expertise lies in working with you to ensure that you manage lubrication properly, helping you to reduce the total cost of equipment ownership. As the construction industry continues to grow, particularly in places like China where rapid urbanisation is taking place, there is a greater competition to deliver projects on budget and on time. Companies that outperform competitors are eating up this new growth, there is every effort to maximise productivity in this fierce market landscape. We see many customers extending equipment life beyond warranty and opting to rent rather than purchase new machinery in an effort to maximise availability of capital and minimise operating costs. Those investing in new equipment are looking for technology that offers cost- saving potential. However, one thing too few customers appreciate is the impact their lubrication practices have on productivity. Shell’s experts work with customers in order to assess a construction project’s end to end maintenance costs, and deliver lubrication solutions capable of minimising them. A common issue in construction equipment is fuel injector malfunction. When this happens, unburnt fuel often enters combustion chambers and dilutes oil which significantly impairs product performance and wears down the component. Shell’s lubricants are designed to remain stable despite dilution and thus help to prevent unplanned shut downs. The emergence of new OEMs from Asia is introducing a broader variety of construction equipment to the industry, all with slightly different lubrication requirements. In addition, in regions like North America, many construction companies are starting to move into quarrying and cement manufacturing. This is diversifying their portfolio of equipment, and means that the lubricant must be able to perform in even more challenging operating conditions. As changing conditions, equipment and construction needs disrupt the marketplace, Shell’s expertise lies in delivering lubrication processes that can help customers achieve their goals, and ultimately reduce costs. Through effective lubrication, Shell has achieved helping customers worldwide to make over $139m in savings. Based on research commissioned by Shell Lubricants, conducted by Edelman Intelligence (Nov - Dec 2015.) Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on the equipment, incl. cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, and costs from lost production during downtime. Based on savings delivered to Shell Lubricants customers. Powering Peak Performance Effective equipment maintenance and lubrication can help companies maximise profitability. Learn more about some of the key barriers to overcome. Delivering Under Pressure How lubricants can help construction companies increase equipment productivity and reduce total cost of ownership. End to End Construction Solutions Ensure your equipment lasts as long as what it builds, so you can focus on creating a thriving and sustainable future. Construction Innovation Building for the future means planning from today. Learn how to make the most of the latest construction technologies and innovations. Preventing Equipment Failure Safeguarding your assets is a business imperative. Discover the link between healthy equipment and a healthy balance sheet. Industry Collaboration Construction industry trends come and go. A good partner won’t. See how we can help you get the most out of your people. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Keeping Up with Construction: How Machinery Can Meet the Demands of Tomorrow Until recently, the use of augmented reality (AR) in architecture and construction was the preserve of big corporates with equally big technology budgets. No longer. Technologies such as data analytics, predictive maintenance, prototyping through 3D printing, automated site-management solutions and drone-enabled inspections are now taking the construction sector by storm. Driven by the need to meet ever tighter deadlines and ambitious client specifications, the sector is rapidly digitising previously manual workflows and information systems. The rise of the digital construction site In previous waves of digitisation, companies adopted discrete technologies, each designed to tackle a single task. Today, using digital construction site management solutions, firms feed data from a range of systems into a single-site model and a single, dynamically evolving project-management plan. This allows many previously separate systems to now interact to become more than the sum of their parts. For instance: GPS trackers help site managers see exactly where each piece of machinery — every backhoe, boring machine, bulldozer, cement mixer, excavator and forklift — is on the site, both in real time and across time. Using tablets and geotrackers, engineers can locate existing underground infrastructure before work begins. Connected sensors on key structure and sub-systems provide information about variables, such as temperature and humidity, that can have a significant impact on whether any given task runs smoothly and ends well. The result is a construction site on which every job is done in a sequence, machine utilisation rates are kept as high as possible and idle or unplanned downtime as low as possible. Every person and piece of equipment is where he, she or it should be at any given time. At least, that’s the theory. To ensure that it translates into reality, all the machines and equipment on site must be as available in the real world as they are in the virtual one. And that’s why maintenance is more important than ever. Innovation means nothing without reliability and performance If you’ve planned work schedules on a complex construction site down to the minute, then all the equipment in that plan needs to be available, working at peak efficiency, and where it’s supposed to be. But that cannot happen if machinery is lost to unplanned downtime or is working at below expected performance levels. According to the Shell Powering Peak Performance report: 34 per cent of lubricant decision-makers in construction admit there are challenges in keeping up with the latest practices and trends. A further 68 per cent of respondents believe more third-party advice would improve their practices. 76 per cent think a lubricant supplier who can share expertise would be invaluable to their company. This is important. The latest low-viscosity, synthetic lubricants are designed to be effective for longer, extending the time between drain intervals. They combine protection against wear with friction-reducing properties, helping to safeguard against damage but also maximising the amount of energy in the fuel that is delivered to the machine’s moving parts. This helps cut fuel costs and emissions. Keep pace with progress through partnership As the construction industry evolves, the companies that manage to respond in an agile and innovative fashion will gain the edge over their competitors. Working with Shell Lubricant Solutions is one way to ensure that advanced equipment operates at optimum levels – by using innovative and high-performance products, and providing engineers and maintenance staff with the knowledge and tools they need to apply the latest technologies in lubrication and equipment maintenance. Through services such as LubeAdvisor, LubeMatch and LubeCoach, Shell provides knowledge and tools to help companies: train staff on lubrication best practices, find exactly the right oil for their equipment and use case, and maintain that oil — and the machine it protects — in peak condition. Our experts can help you keep up with the pace of change and stay ahead of your competitors. The environment the construction industry has to operate in has never been tougher. Margins are razor thin, demand for improved productivity is constant, and environmental standards continue to tighten. Firms investing in new technology to maintain their competitive edge are doing exactly the right thing. Yet ultimately, if the same innovation and diligence are not applied to maintenance, all these efforts to maintain profitability will be unsuccessful. With the innovations arriving now and imminently, these are exciting times for the sector – but this potentially bright future still needs to be fought for. End to End Construction Solutions Ensure your equipment lasts as long as what it builds, so you can focus on creating a thriving and sustainable future. Preventing Equipment Failure Safeguarding your assets is a business imperative. Discover the link between healthy equipment and a healthy balance sheet. Industry Collaboration Construction industry trends come and go. A good partner won’t. See how we can help you get the most out of your people. Maximising Your Output Whether you’re an OEM or a site manager, productivity is paramount. Find out how to unlock new efficiencies by improving your fluid management. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. While the European construction industry has gone through a period of recovery, there is no room for complacency. Many challenges still persist, such as squeezed margins, economic uncertainty and ever-increasing demands for better environmental performance and productivity. In the UK, margins amongst the top ten biggest contractors fell to 0.38 per cent on a combined turnover of £31 billion (€27.4 billion), as of July 2018. Darker clouds are also looming over western European construction. Across the EU, together with Norway, Switzerland and Turkey, the industry reached a peak revenue of €1,615 billion and employed over 17 million people in 2017. German-based rating agency Scope has warned of slowing economic growth and persistent labour shortages. The agency has revised its annual growth forecast for 2019 and 2020 to two per cent, down from a 2.5 per cent forecast in December 2017. Scope also points out the credit outlook, particularly for smaller companies, is in danger of deteriorating as the business cycle slows. These figures give a clear indication of the rising pressure main contractors are under to cut costs and improve productivity - and their suppliers should be attuned to these pressures. This is why getting the most out of their equipment ranks so highly on the to-do lists of construction and equipment hire firms across Europe. In a major survey commissioned by Shell Lubricants, nearly eight out of 10 (76 per cent) of 400 construction staff said extending the lifespan of existing equipment was a priority. However, trying to make equipment last for longer is a false economy if it’s going to be breaking down repeatedly while you hold on to it, or worse still, if it proves unsafe for operators. Unexpected breakdowns cut into project profit margins, particularly if parts take days to arrive and machinery is lying idle. Similarly, the breakdown of one piece of equipment can have the knock-on effect of unplanned downtime of other units while the project is stalled. If work is stalled because of faulty equipment, firms can also face hefty penalties and reputational damage. A study by one global manufacturer found idle time can range from 400 to 800 non-productive hours per year, per machine. This was supported by Shell Lubricant’s data too - more than half of respondents (53 per cent) said equipment breakdowns are a challenge to their business, and 72 per cent said issues with equipment reliability have led to unexpected costs. Minimising the total cost of ownership is the holy grail for machinery hirers and managers – but it simply won’t happen if companies neglect maintenance. Fortunately, three quarters (78 per cent) of European construction companies realise this and believe effective equipment maintenance can generate savings. Less fortunately… this theoretical grasp does not seem to extend to what firms are practising - more than half (53 per cent) said that maintenance is often deprioritised until there is a breakdown. A dearth of knowledge and skills, too few staff and a lack of support from senior management are all cited as reasons maintenance regimes are suffering. What’s holding back maintenance in European construction?* Three key reasons from lubricant decision makers in the construction industry: Inadequate staff expertise – 69% Maintenance is not sufficiently valued by senior management – 44% Too few maintenance staff – 32% Firms also appear to be scoring too many own goals when it comes to maintenance practices that can be quickly implemented and yet be highly effective, such as lubrication. The life expectancy and reliability of construction equipment is inextricably linked to the application of the right lubricant, at the right time (and in the right amount) needed to reduce friction, heat, and wear. Despite this, 40 per cent of companies surveyed often experienced breakdowns because of ineffective lubrication, while a similar number (43 per cent) admit that lubrication is rarely a priority. On a positive note, construction firms are aware that they cannot, and indeed should not, have to go it alone. More than seven out of 10 (73 per cent) agree their maintenance staff would benefit from additional training on effective equipment lubrication - and 73 per cent value lubricant suppliers who can share expertise. As market trading conditions are likely to get tougher, it makes sense for construction equipment owners and users to consider opportunities to target savings where they can. Putting in place effective maintenance regimes and working with lubricant suppliers who can offer the partnership they need can only help on this front. Shell Lubricants have found that customers worldwide who invest in lubricants and lube services can save anything from a few thousands to many millions per year. True partnerships can provide good quality services and staff training but ideally, can also contribute to positive cultural change. By working hand in hand with maintenance managers, the right partners can help construction firms build a solid business case for their senior management to invest in scheduled preventative maintenance. Which delivers measurable, and much needed, dividends for everyone in the long term. *Source: Powering Peak Performance – Shell survey of lubricant decision makers in European construction industry (January 2019) End to End Construction Solutions Ensure your equipment lasts as long as what it builds, so you can focus on creating a thriving and sustainable future. Construction Innovation Building for the future means planning from today. Learn how to make the most of the latest construction technologies and innovations. Industry Collaboration Construction industry trends come and go. A good partner won’t. See how we can help you get the most out of your people. Maximising Your Output Whether you’re an OEM or a site manager, productivity is paramount. Find out how to unlock new efficiencies by improving your fluid management. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. A successful construction operation needs seamless integration across each of its moving parts. But excavators, bulldozers and loaders all have different needs. Learn what makes your fleet tick and how to keep your business in motion, with fluids that are specifically formulated to protect transmission systems, diesel engines, gears and hydraulics, and services that can empower your business with improved fleet management and more effective maintenance operations. Infographic: Maximising machinery to meet deadlines High-quality lubricant solutions help ensure equipment always performs at its best on site, keeping building projects on time and on budget. Read more about maximising machinery Lubricants for Construction Unlocking cost savings in construction by upgrading lubrication. Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Heavy duty engine oils Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Transmission Oils The Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and automatic transmission lubricants has been developed to provide choice when selecting the right oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations. Hydraulic Oils Advanced hydraulic oils using gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology can help upgrade energy efficiency of construction, manufacturing, or mining operations. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Lubricants Product RangeDiscover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Argina & Gadinia – Power Engine Oils Shell Argina is designed for use in heavy fuel (LSFO & HSFO). Shell Gadinia meets the needs of engines burning distillates and liquid biofuels. Shell Corena - Compressor oils The Shell Corena range of air compressor oils has been developed to let you select the oil that will help deliver optimum value to your operation through enhanced wear protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. Shell Diala - Transformer Oils All Shell Diala electrical oils are designed to offer excellent heat transfer and dielectric properties, even at the lowest start-up operating temperatures, for both transformer and power station applications. Shell Gadus - Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Shell Morlina - Bearing and circulating oils Efficient bearing and circulating systems are characterised by their ability to operate at or beyond their original design parameters. Consistent and reliable lubrication, whatever the operating conditions, is key. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engines Oil The Shell Mysella range of gas-engine oils has been developed to deliver optimum value to equipment operators through enhanced wear protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. Shell Omala - Gear oils The longer an oil’s life, the less fluid maintenance your equipment requires, so it can continue to operate without interruption. Shell Risella X - Process Oils Shell Risella X oils are high-quality technical white oils, based on gas to liquids (GTL) technology, that offer valuable performance advantages. Shell Spirax - Axle and Transmission Oils Shell Spirax oils are designed to help keep your transmission components protected so that they can go on working efficiently. Shell Tellus – Hydraulic Fluid To meet the challenges of a wide range of hydraulic equipment and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of fluids that enables you to choose a product to best match your needs Shell Tonna - Slideways oils Shell’s Tonna range is especially designed to lubricate machine tool slides, tables and feed mechanisms. Shell Turbo - Turbine oils Shell has developed a range of turbine oils that enables users such as power companies and process plant operators to select the oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations through enhanced protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Shell Argina & Gadinia – Power Engine OilsShell Argina is designed for use in heavy fuel (LSFO & HSFO). Shell Gadinia meets the needs of engines burning distillates and liquid biofuels. These engine oils are suitable for three distinct applications: Marine propulsion engines for small to mid-size vessels Marine auxiliary engines Stationary power generation Shell Argina & Gadinia Product Range Shell’s range of power-generation engine oils are designed to minimise deposit build-up and to keep your engine clean. Explore the range. Download the Shell Power Engine Brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Corena - Compressor oilsThe Shell Corena range of air compressor oils has been developed to let you select the oil that will help deliver optimum value to your operation through enhanced wear protection, long oil life and high system efficiency.Developed in close co-operation with customers and equipment makers. A wide range of industries are benefiting from Shell’s proven lubrication performance that adds value to their businesses. Shell Corena product range From mainstream oils for standard life applications to advanced synthetic oils that can last for up to three years, explore the Shell Corena range. Download the Shell Corena product brochure Process oils Shell is one of the leading process oil manufacturers and has more than 25 years’ experience in the process oils business. We recognise the crucial role that process oils play in your products and operations. Shell Diala - Transformer OilsThe Shell Diala range of transformer oils helps to protect your equipment and to ensure efficient operation throughout its lifetime. The Shell Diala range has been extended with the introduction of new GTL based products to meet the demands imposed by the reduced size, increased loads higher voltages and longer operational lifetimes of today’s transformers. Find the right oil to use Use our Shell LubeMatch tool to find the right oil for your vehicle. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Shell Gadus - GreasesThe Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency.From greases that offer reliable performance for standard applications to specialist low noise, high-temperature and heavy-load greases, there is a Shell Gadus product that can help to optimise your system’s efficiency and costs of operation. Shell Gadus Product Range The Shell Gadus range has been developed to give you enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Find out how it can help your business. Download the Shell Gadus Product Range Brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Morlina - Bearing and circulating oilsEfficient bearing and circulating systems are characterised by their ability to operate at or beyond their original design parameters. Consistent and reliable lubrication, whatever the operating conditions, is key.To meet the challenges of a wide range of equipment designs and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of oils that enables you to choose a product to match your technical and operational needs. Shell Morlina Product Range Lubrication systems for industrial equipment differ considerably. Choose from our Shell Morlina range to find a bearing and circulating oil to match your needs. Download the Shell Morlina Brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engines OilThe Shell Mysella range of gas-engine oils has been developed to deliver optimum value to equipment operators through enhanced wear protection, long oil life and high system efficiency.To meet the challenges of a wide range of gas-engines and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of fluids that enable you to choose a product to match your technical and operational needs. Shell Mysella product range Shell’s range of stationary gas engine oils are designed to extend oil life, minimise deposits and keep your engine clean. Explore the range. Download the Mysella Family Brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Omala - Gear oilsThe longer an oil’s life, the less fluid maintenance your equipment requires, so it can continue to operate without interruption.Customers using Shell’s standard products, such as Shell Omala S2 G, are extending oil-drain intervals by up to 200% for some applications. Customers are trading up to synthetic oils, such as Shell Omala S4 GX, for even longer oil life and other benefits. Shell Omala Product Range Explore how Shell’s Omala range enables you to match oil life to your needs. Download the Omala Brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Elecon Recommends Shell OmalaElecon recommends Shell Omala S2 G 320 & Shell Omala S4 GX 320 as the most effective gear oil for its meticulously designed gear boxes. “Elecon is the largest gearbox manufacturer in India. Elecon makes wide range of gear boxes ranging from Helical and Bevel Helical Gear boxes, Planetary Gear boxes, Worm Gear boxes, Marine Gear boxes, Elevator Traction Machines, Wind Mill Gear boxes, Couplings, High Speed Gear boxes etc. Elecon has expertise in providing customised gear boxes for Steel Mills, High Speed Turbines, Sugar Mills, Marine vessels, Coast Guard Ships, Plastic Extrusions, Antenna Drives and for Satellites in the Indian Space Programme. Elecon has played a pioneering role by being first in design, manufacturing and supplying many of the above products in India, and thereby adhering to the motto of “ALWAYS A STEP AHEAD IN TECHNOLOGY” Every part of your Elecon gear box is meticulously designed to deliver the highest performance. So, if you want to use a lubricant which can ensure maximum protection and prolong its life. Then, we believe that Shell Omala S4 GX and Shell Omala S2GX are the only lubricants which meet all these challenges and helps in protecting & performing your Elecon gear boxes several times better than any other lubricant. Product Benefits Shell Omala S2 G 320 (Main Stream Product) Shell Omala S2 G is designed primarily for the lubrication of heavy duty industrial gears along with their high load carrying capacity and anti-friction properties. Designed to protect Protecting gears from damage can help to increase service life and maximise your return on investment. Shell Omala S2 G can help to achieve this by providing good performance in the four main wear tests: FZG load-carrying-capacity test (DIN 51534), which assesses resistance to scuffing FZG wear test (ASTM D4998), which assesses resistance to wear Four-ball load-carrying test (IP 239), which assesses resistance to seizure FAG FE-8 test (DIN 51819), which assesses protection for rolling bearings Exceeding FZG scuffing resistance test requirements even under severe, double-speed testing. Shell Omala S4 GX 320 (Premium Product) Shell Omala S4 GX is an advanced synthetic heavy duty industrial gear oil offering outstanding lubrication performance under severe operating conditions, including reduced friction, long service life and high resistance to micro-pitting for optimal gear protection. Designed to protect Protecting gears from damage can help to increase service life and maximise your return on investment. Shell Omala S4 GX can help to achieve this by Providing up to 90% less bearing wear than standard FAG test limits Significantly exceeding the minimum gear protection requirements, even during double-speed testing. Performance at a glance Protection Oil life System efficiency Shell Omala S4 GX Synthetic Extra Protection Extra long life Special applications Best Best Best Shell Omala S2 G Extra protection Industrial applications Better Good Better Performance level is a relative indication only. Type of Gear Mainstream Product Shell Omala S2 G 320 Premium Product Shell Omala S4 GX 320 Spur Gear Bevel Gear Helical Gear Planetary Gear Mineral base gear oil, offer excellent micro-pitting protection. Resist oxidation and provide long oil life. Compatible with al seal materials Prevent premature failures of seals, avoiding leakage and prolonging the life of all fear box components. Fully Synthetic Poly Alpha Olephin (PAO) gear oil offer exended drain intervals compare to mineral based product. Suitable for use in wide range of temperatures Providing reduction in operating temperatures and increase in efficiency due to low coefficient of friction Full Product and Service Portfolio Shell Lubricants is the market leader in lubricants, and has a 60-year history of innovation. We are constantly investing to develop better lubrication solutions,to help you improve your business performance. Whatever your needs or application, we can provide a full range of oils and greases, including synthetic, high-performance products and additional services like: Shell LubeAnalyst Shell LubeAnalyst tests the condition of your lubricant to monitor and track your equipment performance. Shell Videocheck Shell LubeVideoCheck allows for assessment of internal engine condition without the need for dismantling the engine. Shell Lubecoach Shell LubeCoach is a quality training programme designed to deliver benefits of a well designed lubrication plan. Shell LubeAdvisor Shell LubeAdvisor delivers technical advice, basic product recommendation and troubleshooting support for lubricant related equipment problems. Shell LubeMatch Shell LubeMatch is a web-based product recommendation tool that aims at providing 24/7 self-help to customers in matching our products to their application. Shell Omala S2 G brochure Shell Omala S4 GX brochure For more information, please contact us at: E-mail: contactus.india@shell.com | Telephone No. +91 124 4771500 Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Risella X - Process OilsShell Risella X oils are high-quality technical white oils, based on gas to liquids (GTL) technology, that offer valuable performance advantages.Shell Risella X oils offer excellent performance in selected applications because unlike other oils, they are made from pure synthesis gas. This leads to final products with a distinct molecular structure providing extra purity and excellent performance in selected applications. Shell Risella X Product Range Shell Risella X oils have been designed to become game changers for your products and operations. Download the Risella X Brochure Shell Spirax - Axle and Transmission OilsShell Spirax oils are designed to help keep your transmission components protected so that they can go on working efficiently. For example, Shell Spirax S6 AXME and Shell Spirax S6 GXME have special frictional properties and high fluidity that reduce power loss, lower the operating temperature and offer higher mechanical efficiency. Their benefits have been demonstrated through extensive laboratory tests and over 20 million kilometres of field trials. Shell Spirax Product Range Discover how Shell Spirax oils help keep transmission components protected so that they can go on working efficiently. Download the Shell Spirax brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Tellus – Hydraulic FluidTo meet the challenges of a wide range of hydraulic equipment and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of fluids that enables you to choose a product to best match your needs. It includes extra-long-life synthetic technologies capable of up to four times standard life*, through to cost-effective, reliable products for less-demanding applications.*compared with other oils in the Shell range. Shell Tellus Product Range Shell Tellus hydraulic fluids include extra-long-life synthetic technologies capable of up to four times standard life, through to reliable products for less-demanding applications. Download the Shell Tellus Product Family Brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Tonna - Slideways oilsShell’s Tonna range is especially designed to lubricate machine tool slides, tables and feed mechanisms. With excellent frictional properties, very good slideway adhesion and excellent anti-wear performance, it can be relied on to provide efficient machining accuracy and reliable protection for your equipment. Shell Tonna S2 Premium machine tool slideway oil - with advanced adhesion properties and reduced stick-slip. Download the Shell Tonna S2 brochure Shell Tonna S3 M Best-in-class machine tool slideway oil - with excellent frictional properties and anti-wear performance. Download the Shell Tonna S3 brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Turbo - Turbine oilsShell has developed a range of turbine oils that enables users such as power companies and process plant operators to select the oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations through enhanced protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. Shell Turbo Product Range Choose a turbine oil that has been specially designed to minimise downtime under continuous operating conditions, from the Shell Turbo range Download the Shell Turbo Brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Shell Spirax - Axle and Transmission OilsShell Spirax oils are designed to help keep your transmission components protected so that they can go on working efficiently. Shell Spirax S2 A 85W140, Spirax S2 G 80W90, Spirax S6 AXME have special frictional properties and high fluidity that reduce power loss, lower the operating temperature and offer higher mechanical efficiency. Their benefits have been demonstrated through extensive laboratory tests and over 20 million kilometres of field trials. Shell Spirax Product Range Discover how Shell Spirax oils help keep transmission components protected so that they can go on working efficiently. Download the Shell Spirax brochure Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Lubricant data centreThe Shell Lubricants Data Centre is a new digital hub that houses all of the technical and safety information relating to our products. It’s an initiative designed to help you find out whatever you may need, about any of our products, quickly, easily and efficiently. Tips for using the catalogue: Determine catalogue language and click on next. (example: German.) Datasheet language determine with the country. (example: Germany for German and UK for English) Write in the search field only the mean part of the product name (example: only Helix for Shell Helix Ultra 5W-30) and click on Search and later decide the correct one from the list TDS is technical data sheet and MSDS is the safety data sheet Shell Lubricants ContactsTo find out more about how Shell Lubricants could benefit your business, please get in touch.Process oilsWe recognise the crucial role that process oils play in your products and operations and we offer expert consultation and technical advice to support your business needs. We understand that the quality of these vital oils is paramount, and that using a process oil that has a highly consistent quality can have a major bearing on the success of your business. Shell is one of the leading process oil manufacturers and has more than 30 years’ experience in the process oils business. Process oils applications Read more about Shell Process Oil applications. Success stories White Oils from natural gas? See how it worked for others! Shell immersion cooling fluids Find out how Shell’s gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology is enabling the latest immersion cooling solutions and helping data centres become more energy efficient and climate friendly. Mineral oil free animal vaccine adjuvant Find out how Shell’s gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology is an alternative to mineral oils as animal vaccine adjuvant Shell Risella X Shell Risella X is a range of top-tier process oils based on gas to liquids (GTL) technology. It offers several advantages over conventional process oils, including extra purity and excellent performance in selected applications. Download the Shell Risella X brochure Shell Ondina X Shell Ondina X is a range of top-tier medical white oils based on gas to liquids (GTL) technology. It offers a high level of purity and excellent performance in selected applications, creating opportunities to enhance your products and operations. Download the Shell Ondina X brochure Shell Catenex T Shell Catenex T oils are highly refined hydrotreated paraffinic process oils, virtually colourless and sulphur free. These oils are highly saturated, free of aromatics and polar compounds. Catenex T oils are recommended for use in process oils applications where colour stability, low volatility and low sulphur levels are required. These highly refined oils are ideal for use as process oils in rubber, elastomer, plastic, adhesive Shell Flavex 595 Shell Flavex 595 is a non-labelled process oil used as an extender oil in the manufacture of tyres. It is made using residual aromatic extract (RAE) technology to produce summer, all-season and high-performance tyres. It offers an alternative to traditional distillate aromatic extract (DAE) products and is fully compliant with EU Directive 2005/69/EC , REACH Regulation 1907/2006, Annex XVII (Item 50). REACH for Shell Lubricants Supply Chain If you have a REACH query about a Shell Lubricants product please contact our regulatory chemistry team on lubricantSDS@shell.com and they can help with your specific query. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Process oils applicationsProcess oils are special oils which are used in a wide variety of chemical and technical industries either as raw material component or as an aid to processing. Shell is one of the leading process oil manufacturers and recognises the crucial role that process oils play in your products and operations. Having worked closely with the world’s leading metalworking fluid manufacturers, Shell understands the challenges that you face. We know that to succeed in the competitive global marketplace it is essential to maximise productivity and process efficiency while minimising emissions and improving workplace conditions. The Shell Risella X range is the next generation of process oils based on gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. They have been developed to unlock competitive advantage because they offer. Find out more about Shell Process Oils in the Metalworking Industry Shell Ondina X oils have numerous key benefits that make them smart alternative adjuvants to conventional mineral oils and other, nonmineral-based products such as squalene. Shell Ondina X is a range of next-generation, synthetic, straight-cut, medicinal-grade oils with consistent quality that offer superior levels of safety. The range offers a good alternative to conventional adjuvant oils for formulating high-performance animal vaccines. With a range of viscosities, narrow chain-length distribution and associated average molecular weights, the Shell Ondina X range offers targeted choices for a variety of applications and animal species. Find out more about Shell Ondina X as animal vaccine adjuvant Consumers in the worldwide market for cosmetics and toiletry have become much more sophisticated buyers and expect higher quality products. To be successful, cosmetic producers must meet these demands and offer clear differentiation from their competitors. In addition, there is a clear trend for consumers seeking purer products and those that are naturally based or nature-inspired. White oils are commonly used ingredients in most types of personal care products and many cosmetics formulations, from petroleum jelly to hair and skin care products. Shell’s next generation medicinal white oils, Shell Ondina X, are no longer based on conventional mineral oils derived from crude oils, but on GTL technology. Shell Ondina X oils can help you to unlock competitive advantage. Find out more about Shell Ondina X in cosmetic and personal care formulations Shell understands your business and the challenges that you face. Your products need to match your customers’ needs in a wide range of industries, including the automotive, consumer goods, industrial and medical sectors. Their requirements are becoming more and more sophisticated while legislation becomes more stringent. Process oils play a critical role in the formulation of polymer compounds and rubber blends. They typically represent 20–50% of a polymer compound, such as TPE, and up to 100 parts per hundred in rubber blends, such as EPDM. The process oil functions as an extender oil, and it is extremely important that it has good performance and compatibility with the polymer as this influences the rubber’s softness, elasticity and colour stability. Shell Risella X oils can help you to unlock competitive advantage because they offer eXcellent performance and eXtra purity. Find out more about Shell Process oils in the polymer industry Read more about our success stories Find out more about ‘Resisting Automotive TPE Fogging with GTL Base Oils At Shell, we understand the crucial role that process oils play in your product and operations. We know that you need defoamer formulations for your customers that offer excellent performance in minimising foam formation, rapidly releasing entrained air, and having low volatility to minimise the potential emission of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). In oil based defoamer formulations, the oil can comprise up to 90% of the formulation. It functions as a carrier fluid, in order both to spread over the surface of the aqueous system to neutralise the surfactant molecules and to transport the hydrophobic ingredients of the defoamer to the double layers of surfactant molecule that stabilise the foam bubbles in order to destroy them. Shell Risella X can help you unlocking competitive advantage because it offers eXcellent performance and eXtra purity. Find out more about Shell Risella X oils in oil-based defoamer formulations Read more about our success stories Textile auxiliary formulations are critical in the manufacturing processes for yarns, nonwoven fabrics and all valuable products made from fibres. They prevent wear and rupture of the fibres, avoid electrostatic charging of fibres and reduce dust formation on fibres and roller points. These formulations can be applied either as an emulsion with water as a spin finish or pure as coning oil. At Shell, through working closely with the world’s leading textile auxiliary manufacturers, we understand your challenges. We appreciate that to succeed in the competitive global marketplace it is essential to maximise productivity and process efficiency, while minimising emissions and avoiding ageing effects and discoloration of the fibres. The Shell Risella X range is the next generation of process oils based on gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. They have been developed to unlock competitive advantage because they offer eXcellent performance and eXtra purity. Find out more about Shell Risella X oils in textile auxiliary formulations Read more about our success stories Kraton and Shell Process Oils have combined their expertise by working together to develop a new generation of optical cable gels that offer gel and cable manufacturers enhanced process efficiency and product quality. Optical cable manufacturers use an oil-based gel to flood rigid tubes containing optical fibres. These tubes are packed together, flooded with gel again and enclosed in an outer jacket to form the optical cable. The gel needs to display thixotropic behaviour: to flow easily into place under shear but to become viscous once in place to protect the fibres. It must also be free from impurities that could compromise the optical cable’s performance and continue performing by remaining stable and avoiding oil bleed. “The combination of our polymers and Shell Risella X oils offers an exciting enhancement in process efficiency and product quality with the potential to give both cable and gel manufacturers a new competitive edge.” says Sandrine Duc, Sales Development Manager – Performance Products, Kraton Performance Polymers Inc. Read more about our success stories Having worked closely with the world’s leading rubber and tyre manufacturers for many years, Shell understands the challenges that you face. Maintaining your competitiveness in the global marketplace requires ongoing product performance improvements, and then there is the ever-present need to adapt to new and emerging legislation. Shell Flavex 595 is a non-labelled process oil used as an extender oil in the manufacture of tyres. It is made using residual aromatic extract (RAE) technology to produce summer, all-season and high-performance tyres. It offers an alternative to traditional distillate aromatic extract (DAE) products and is fully compliant with EU Directive 2005/69/EC , REACH Regulation 1907/2006, Annex XVII (Item 50). It presents exciting new opportunities, unlocking competitive advantage for both tyre and styrene butadiene rubber producers. It could also provide a real edge for your products. Shell process oils can help tyre manufacturers to enhance the performance of their products and meet environmental legislation. Various manufacturers in the rubber industry have unlocked value by using Shell Flavex 595, as it shows several advantages in applications requesting high polarity. Find out more about Shell Process Oils in the tyre manufacturing industry Process oils are used in a large variety of finished products in the chemical and manufacturing industries. Shell, with more than 25 years’ experience, recognises the crucial role that process oils play in your products and operations. We also understand that the quality of these vital oils is paramount, and that using a process oil that has a highly consistent quality can have a major bearing on the success of your business. Customers in a variety of industries have unlocked value by using Shell Process oils. These include manufacturers of crop protection spray oils, defoamers, explosives, fertilisers, hot-melt adhesives, optical cable fill gels, petroleum jelly, textile and leather auxiliaries, thermoplastic elastomers. If you are interested in unlocking valuable performance advantages, talk to us about the benefits that Shell Process Oils could have for your business: our experienced process oils experts can work with you to analyse your needs and propose solutions. The result? Technology that delivers value to your operations. Process oils Shell is one of the leading process oil manufacturers and has more than 25 years’ experience in the process oils business. We recognise the crucial role that process oils play in your products and operations. Success stories White Oils from natural gas? See how it worked for others! Success storiesCustomers in a variety of industries have unlocked value by using Shell process oils. Our experienced process oils experts can work with you to analyse your needs and propose solutions to help solve your problems. The result? Technology that delivers value to your operations. Process oils Shell is one of the leading process oil manufacturers and has more than 25 years’ experience in the process oils business. We recognise the crucial role that process oils play in your products and operations. Process oils applications Read more about Shell Process Oil applications. Contact our process oils expertsWe recognise the crucial role that process oils play in your products and operations and we offer expert consultation and technical advice to support your business needs. We understand that the quality of these vital oils is paramount, and that using a process oil that has a highly consistent quality can have a major bearing on the success of your business. Shell is one of the leading process oil manufacturers and has more than 30 years’ experience in the process oils business.Shell immersion cooling fluidsFind out how Shell’s gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology is enabling the latest immersion cooling solutions and helping data centres become more energy efficient and climate friendly. Cloud computing, streaming, big data, blockchain, artificial intelligence and social media – society is demanding faster, more immediate data access. This means growing of data centres and computing infrastructure. However, keeping the servers in these centres cool is cost-intensive and uses large amounts of energy. Full immersion in a thermally conductive, electrically non-conductive (dielectric) coolant is a highly efficient way to keep computer components cool. It can help to cut energy consumption massively and lower carbon dioxide emissions while reducing costs and increasing location flexibility. How does immersion cooling work? Immersion cooling is a way of cooling IT components, including whole servers, by submerging them in a dielectric (electrically non-conductive) fluid. Shell Immersion Cooling Fluid, circulates by natural convection or is pumped around to remove heat from the components. An added benefit is that this heat can be recovered by water-cooled heat exchangers for reuse in district heating projects. Two immersion-cooling technologies are widely available: Single-phase immersion cooling (diagram below), in which the coolant stays as a liquid; and two-phase immersion cooling, where the coolant boils to form a gas before condensing back to a liquid. Comparing immersion cooling technologies Attribute Aircooling (traditional data centres)* Liquid cooling: Single-phase cooling, cold plate (water)^ Liquide cooling: Single-phase cooling, immersion*^ Liquid cooling: Two-phase cooling (high range applications)^ Cooling capacity + ++ +++ ++++ Hardware integration + ++ ++ ++ Hardware reliability + – ++ + Hardware performance + ++ +++ +++ Heat recovery + ++ +++ +++ Initial capital expenditure + – ++ – – – Operating expenditure + ++ ++ ++ * Infrastructure Services Group, reported in “Global immersion cooling market in data centers – Growth, trends, forecast (2019-2024), Mordor Intelligence (2019) ^ Customer feedback and internal evalution. + Positive comparison - Negative comparison The liquid coolant never changes state (no boiling or freezing, etc.) Mainly for high heat range applications Compared with air or water cooling, single-phase immersion cooling offers: Lower total cost of ownership Requires less equipment, space, energy and maintenance. Reduction in energy footprint Eliminates the need for energy-intensive air-conditioning units and reduces carbon energy footprint. Less carbon dioxide emissions A lower energy footprint reduces carbon dioxide emissions. Less floor space A single-phase cooling system is less complex and eliminates the need for raised floors and aisles between server racks. Faster CPU performance A dielectric coolant conducts heat 1,200 times better than air, which enables servers to run faster and cooler. Less capital and operating expenditure Smaller physical, energy and carbon footprints make single-phase cooling a more cost-effective option. Climate and location independence Can operate effectively in high humidity, ambient temperatures up to 40°C and dusty industrial settings. Greater reliability Easy-to-access coolant baths make maintenance tasks quick and simple. Coolant is also reusable. Shell immersion cooling fluids Shell Immersion Cooling Fluid S3 X is a synthetic, single-phase immersion cooling fluid designed for the needs of high-performance computing, edge computing and blockchain applications Extremely low volatility and safe to handle Excellent thermodynamic properties and high flash point Low density and non‑evaporating Very high oxidation and thermal stabilities Contains virtually no sulphur, nitrogen or aromatics Non‑corrosive Shell Immersion Cooling Fluids are synthetic, single-phase immersion cooling fluid designed for the needs of high-performance computing, edge computing and blockchain applications. Shell is the Open Compute Project Foundation (OCP) Platinum member. To find out more, pleas visit opencompute.org Benefits by user Cloud providers and hyperscale data centres Optimise efficiency and achieve sustainability goals while standardising facilities for a variety of hardware requirements. Telecommunication centres Operate edge data centres anywhere and use existing buildings within their power and cooling availability constraints. Enterprises Simplify on-premises data centres for high efficiency and decreased dependency on the public cloud. Research institutes Facilitate on-campus high-performance computing environments without the need for advanced data centres with their associated energy and cost demands. Colocation providers Facilitate hosting high-density and -performance computer users in a simple and scalable manner. Block chain operators Immersion cooling is an alternative to conventional air-cooling that offers energy saving to blockchain computing operations. Strategic alliance with Microsoft As part of our strategic alliance with Microsoft launched in 2020, we are progressing immersion coolant pilots at their data centres to keep computer components cool which helps to cut energy consumption and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. re: Shell Annual report 2021; Shell Sustainability report 2021. DOWNLOADS Shell Immersion Cooling Fluid S3 X Download our Shell Immersion Cooling Fluid S3 X data sheet. Shell Immersion Cooling Fluid Material Compatibility Guide This guide is intended to aid end users with the selection of materials for use in conjunction with Shell Immersion Cooling Fluids. Integrated Immersion Cooling Solutions – Enabling game-changing energy use reduction at data centres Shell Immersion Cooling Fluid tackles data center energy use as part of a wider integrated offer to help center operators meet their climate action ambitions. Four reasons why blockchain operators are moving to immersion cooling It is only a matter of time before immersion cooling becomes the industry standard for blockchain and data centres across the globe. Download our brochure to learn how you can stay ahead of the curve. Global innovations from the energy sector 2010–2020 – World Economic Forum report We are proud to announce that Shell and Asperitas feature in the World Economic Forum’s 2020 report on transformational energy innovations (pages 13 and 14). This showcases selected global energy innovations from the past decade that are judged to be novel, beneficial to society and contributing to accelerating the global energy transition. To find out more about Asperitas, visit their website. Shell ondina x as animal vaccine adjuvantFind out how Shell’s gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology is an alternative to mineral oils as animal vaccine adjuvant. Market trends have indicated an opportunity for Shell to expand into the animal vaccine adjuvant market. The company is introducing Shell Ondina X gas-to-liquids (GTL) oils as alternatives to the white mineral oils commonly used in adjuvant emulsions. The purity and hydrocarbon structures of GTL medicinal grade white oils Ondina X can provide considerable benefits. Shell Ondina X oils for adjuvants Shell GTL oils are based on Fisher–Tropsch synthesis technology, which converts a very clean feedstock, natural gas, into high-quality, lowaromatic liquid products that offer alternatives to crude-oil-derived mineral oils. Shell Ondina X GTL oils predominantly contain isoparaffinic hydrocarbon structures with long, linear-chain backbones and have been purified by hydrotreatment. The resulting medical grade oils are very pure, virtually free of aromatic, sulphur and nitrogen compounds, and significantly more stable than traditional white oils. For the adjuvant market, select Shell Ondina X products have the following key features: The degree of hydrocarbon branching is relatively low. The level of cyclic saturated paraffins is very low (<2%). The oils are virtually free of aromatics and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. The oils meet EU pharmaceutical and FDA purity requirements. Shell Ondina X portfolio range Shell Ondina X adjuvant oils have been specifically designed and tested to meet the stringent medicinal white oil purity requirements of the major international pharmacopoeias, including the European Pharmacopoeia, the United States Pharmacopeia, the Chinese Pharmacopoeia and the Indian Pharmacopoeia. The world’s first monograph on our synthetic paraffinic products (Shell Ondina X 409, 411, 415 and 420) is contained in the German Pharmacopoeia (Deutsches Arzneimittelbuch) DAB 2022, to date the only pharmacopeia that specifies levels of mineral oil aromatic hydrocarbons (MOAH) and other components such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH). Features With a well-defined chemical structure, Shell Ondina X adjuvant oils have an outstanding combination of chemical and physical properties such as exceptional purity, low viscosity, low accumulation rate and superior pour point performance, particularly in cold climates. Exceptional purity Shell Ondina X oils do not contain polycyclic aromatics or pristane, hopanes or steranes (biomarkers of mineral oil) [3]. They are also virtually free of sulphur and nitrogen compounds. [7] Well-defined chemical structure Shell Ondina X oils have homogeneous, isoparaffinic chemical structures with narrow chain-length distributions. They do not contain the complex, plant based hydrocarbon structures of conventional mineral oils [7]. Low viscosity At the same viscosity, Shell Ondina X oils have lower pour points, which gives them excellent performance at low temperatures. Lower accumulation rates Shell Ondina X oils are saturated, low-branched hydrocarbons that metabolise to organic fatty acids that the body can either reuse or degrade by β-oxidation [4, 6]. These oils show low systemic accumulation and rapid elimination. [4] Properties The physical properties of the Shell Ondina X grades indicate that such oils can be used effectively in adjuvants and would be advantageous in a market currently involving traditional white oils, shark liver oils (squalene and squalene). Properties of various oils used in adjuvants for animal vaccine compared with GTL oils are tabulated as below. Product White Oil Hydrocracked oil Shell Ondina X 409 Shell Ondina X 411 Shell Ondina X 415 Squalane Squalene Chemical class Saturated hydrocarbon Saturated hydrocarbon Saturated hydrocarbon Saturated hydrocarbon Saturated hydrocarbon Saturated hydrocarbon Unsaturated hydrocarbon Origin Mineral oil Mineral oil Synthetic Synthetic Synthetic Shark liver Shark liver Boiling range (°C) 280 - 400 280 - 320 270 - 295 305 - 355 320 - 380 285 285 Kinematic viscosity (cSt) 7.2 at 40°C 4.1 at 40°C 3.5 at 40°C 6.0 at 40°C 9.3 at 40°C 34 at 20°C 14 at 25°C Pour point (°C) -6 -18 -18 -15 -39 -38 -75 Density (kg per cubic meter) 840 at 15°C 813 at 15°C 785 at 15°C 800 at 15°C 806 at 15°C 805 at 20°C 858 at 20°C Oxidation stability ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ 0 Isomer typres Iso-, n- and alkylated cycloparaffins (>50%) Iso-, n- and alkylated cycloparaffins (>50%) Linear and low-branched hydrocarbons; n-paraffins <15% Linear and low-branched hydrocarbons; n-paraffins <1% Linear and low-branched hydrocarbons; n-paraffins <10% Highly branched, saturated hydrocarbon Highly branched, unsaturated hydrocarbon-iso-olefin Carbon number range C15 - C30 C15 - C19 C15 - C19 C18 - C24 C17 - C31 C30 C30 The results of 28-d OECD toxicity testing indicate that Shell Ondina X 409 and X 411 oils are classified as readily biodegradable, whereas the Shell Ondina X 415 grade is classified as inherently biodegradable. These excellent biodegradability characteristics and the very low systemic toxicological risks for the high-purity medical grade Shell Ondina X GTL oils mean that they offer a high level of safety for use in adjuvants in animal vaccines. Customers wanting to use Shell Ondina X oils in adjuvants can be assured of high purity grades (free of aromatics and heavy metals) and microbefree products through the high temperature of the hydrotreatment process and subsequent appropriate storage and handling practices, and specific packaging of products (when required). Benefits Shell Ondina X oils have numerous key benefits that make them smart alternative adjuvants to conventional mineral oils and other, nonmineral-based products such as squalene [3]. Safer for animals Less injection pressure is required. These oils also show low systemic accumulation and rapid elimination [4]. Better versatility Better for cold-climate applications, for example, high-latitude fisheries, where oils with better flowability are preferable, or when different permeability rates are required. Safer for humans and ecosystems Shell Ondina X oils are metabolised as much as six times faster than conventional mineral oils in certain applications [4]. This lowers accumulation rates and reduces the risk of residual oil remaining in animal tissue and, thus, entering the human food chain [4]. It also reduces the risk of oil transferring into local ecosystems because of favourable biodegradation properties [5] Scalable supply The origin of Shell Ondina X oils is the Pearl GTL plant in Qatar, the largest facility in the world. We have GTL product storage hubs around the world in different regions including North America, the Middle East, Europe, Hong Kong, Singapore. This means that Shell can supply pharmaceutical grade oils and support vaccine production even when demand is high. References: Aucouturier J, Dupuis L, Ganne V: Adjuvants designed for veterinary and human vaccines. Vaccine 2001, 19(17-19):2,666–2,672. Kuroda Y, Akaogi J, Nacionales DC, Wasdo SC, Szabo NJ, Reeves WH, Satoh M: Distinctive patterns of autoimmune response induced by different types of mineral oil. Toxicological Sciences 2004, 78(2):222-228. Shivaprasad P, de Azevedo, E, Carrillo, J-C, Brosell, A: Animal vaccine adjuvants: A new use for gas-to-liquids oils. Shell TechXplorer Digest 2021: 66-70. Carrillo J-C, Shen H, Momin F, Kral O, Schnieder H, Kühn S: GTL synthetic paraffin oil shows low liver and tissue retention compared to mineral oil. Food and Chemical Toxicology 2022, 159:112701. Whale GF, Dawick J, Hughes CB, Lyon D, Boogaard PJ: Toxicological and ecotoxicological properties of gas-to-liquid (GTL) products. 2. Ecotoxicology. Critical Reviews in Toxicology 2018, 48(4):273–296. Cravedi J, Thibaut R, Tulliez J, Perdu E: Comparative in vitro study of the biotransformation of n-alkanes by liver and small intestine microsomes from different rat strains. Toxicology Letters 2012, 205:S188. Disclosed anonymously: Use of Synthetic Medicinal White Oils in Animal Vaccines. Research Disclosure database number 666021. Published in the October 2019 paper journal. Published digitally 02 September 2019 12:31 UT. Download/More Info Next generation mineral oil free adjuvant oils for animal vaccines Animal vaccine adjuvants: A new use for gas-to-liquids oils. Shell TechXplorer Digest 2021: 66-70 GTL synthetic paraffin oil shows low liver and tissue retention compared to mineral oil. Food and Chemical Toxicology 20221 REACH for Shell Lubricants Supply Chain If you have a REACH query about a Shell Lubricants product please contact our regulatory chemistry team on lubricantSDS@shell.com and they can help with your specific query. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell LubeChatOur new online chat tool gives you answers to questions about oils and lubes. Answers on Demand LubeChat brings you a vast array of Shell knowledge, equipping you to make faster, better-informed decisions that can ultimately help bring down your total cost of ownership. It's easy-to-use It works on your smartphone and your computer It's available 24/7 Try lube chat Click on the red "Shell LubeChat" tab at the bottom right of your screen Key features Find products that are right for your equipment Access technical and safety sheets on Shell products Get the recommended Shell alternative if you have an issue with your current product Access case studies demonstrating how existing customers have improved their operations Shortcuts to popular questions There are thousands of other questions LubeChat can answer. Here’s just a small sample of them. What's the physical characteristics for ...? What lube meets this specification? How do I test for...? What's Shell's range of hydraulic oils called? What's the glossary definition of...? Try lube chat Click on the red "Shell LubeChat" tab at the bottom right of your screen. Greases Shell Gadus greases are designed to deliver value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Gear Oils The Shell Omala range provides longer oil life, resulting in less fluid maintenance, so your gears can continue to operate without interruption. Heavy-Duty Diesel Engine Oils Designed with adaptive technology, Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils provide outstanding wear protection and improved fuel economy. Hydraulic Oils High-performance hydraulic fluids, formulated with ashless technology, that provide excellent viscosity control and protection under severe operating conditions. Shell LubeExpert Avoid breakdowns with our dedicated service experts, who can help inspect critical machinery such as open gears, mills and kilns to keep them running optimally. Shell LubeAdvisor Give your equipment the support it requires. Shell Lube Advisors help you choose the right oil, at the right time, every time. Shell LubeAnalyst Benefit from a combination of industry expertise and scientific best practice that can help predict equipment failures and identify efficiencies. Shell LubeCoach Discover our modular training programme, designed to boost the maintenance knowledge of your workforce. Delivered remotely or in-person, to meet your needs. Solutions That Won’t Crack Under Pressure Industry pressures come in many shapes and sizes, but several can be linked back to poor equipment maintenance. Highly loaded machinery in the cement industry operates under some of the harshest conditions and requires maintenance solutions and products that can withstand these conditions. With reliability, energy efficiency and sustainability at the fore, maintenance solutions from Shell Lubricant Solutions are designed to keep production on track and downtime at bay. Explore our range of lubricants and services and learn how they could play a key role in cementing your business credentials. Cement Plant Reliability and Sustainable Value Creation Learn how to unlock the full potential of your cement operation through uninterrupted production. Download our brochure Greases Whether you’re looking for a multi-purpose grease, high-temperature grease, or speciality grease for critical equipment such as open gears and roller press, Shell Gadus greases deliver value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Gear Oils The Shell Omala range provides longer oil life, resulting in less fluid maintenance, so your gears can continue to operate without interruption. Heavy-Duty Diesel Engine Oils Designed with adaptive technology, Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils provide outstanding wear protection and improved fuel economy. Hydraulic Oils High-performance hydraulic fluids, formulated with ashless technology, that provide excellent viscosity control and protection under severe operating conditions. Shell LubeExpert Avoid breakdowns with our dedicated service experts, who can help inspect critical machinery such as open gears, mills and kilns to keep them running optimally. Shell LubeAdvisor Give your equipment the support it requires. Shell Lube Advisors help you choose the right oil, at the right time, every time. Shell LubeAnalyst Benefit from a combination of industry expertise and scientific best practice that can help predict equipment failures and identify efficiencies. Shell LubeCoach Discover our modular training programme, designed to boost the maintenance knowledge of your workforce. Delivered remotely or in-person, to meet your needs. Expensive, complex components, like open gears, require expert know-how to be effectively maintained and optimised. Since unexpected failures or suboptimal performance can have a disastrous impact on the finances of your business, it’s vital that your workforce is equipped with the right skillset and experience. However, finding these people can be challenging. Fortunately, a trusted industry partner such as Shell Lubricant Solutions can help plug the gaps in a number of ways: 1. Embedding Experts in Your Team Shell LubeExpert offers businesses a network of well-trained mechanics and engineers who have extensive experience of the cement industry. Located throughout the world, these industry experts work alongside your local staff to maximise equipment performance, by conducting (among other maintenance-related services): Routine operating and shutdown inspections Detailed lubricant system checks and audits Gear inspections to American Gear Manufacturers Association standards 2. Avoiding Issues Before They Become Critical Identifying and addressing issues early means that we can help you to avoid their costly consequences. For example, a common issue with vertical raw mills is the premature replacement of rocker-arm bearings, which can cost tens of thousands of dollars in parts alone1. However, Shell LubeExperts can identify and correct problems before they become critical, such as the use of a standard grease rather than a bearing-manufacturer recommended product like Shell Gadus S2 V1000AD or Shell Gadus S3 V460D. 3. Protecting Against Unplanned Downtime At the heart of your ball mills and kilns are open gears. The extreme temperatures and vibration they are exposed to can cause these open gears to fail unexpectedly. However, it is expensive to hold the inventory necessary to replace them in the event of complete failure. In addition to parts, labour and lost production costs, considerable energy is also required to restart an inoperative kiln. Shell LubeExperts work with you to implement a preventive maintenance strategy that can help avoid expensive failures, through: Regular visual inspections - both static and dynamic inspections allow gear conditions to be assessed and confirmed Vibration and temperature monitoring - allows meshing conditions and alignment to be monitored whilst the gears are operating Spray lubrication system auditing and adjustment - to achieve safe & economical consumption rates 1 Based on real-life case in Thailand where the rocker-arm bearing replacement annual cost was $108,000 across three mills. This did not include the lost production time of one and a half days or the skilled labour and crane hire required to perform the bearing exchanges. Products and Services Make sure your business is built on the strongest of foundations with our portfolio of high-quality lubricants and expert services. Case Study: Cemex Watch how we helped a leading global cement producer save almost $1 million in costs by optimising their maintenance practices. Discover our Lubricants Services Learn more about our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Shell Lubricant Solutions helps Cemex save almost $1 million* in maintenance costs Like many others, those in the cement industry are often focused on keeping things moving. From open gears and kilns to heavy-duty vehicles, maintaining production is vital for maximising profitability. When margins are tight and workforces stretched, Shell Lubricant Solutions helps to keep operations in motion, by removing barriers to progress and unlocking business potential. This was the case when global building materials company, Cemex, engaged Shell to overcome a series of challenges at the Egyptian facility, including: Preventing unexpected downtime Reducing operating costs Increasing efficiency Building an effective maintenance plan Shell helped Cemex save more than $900,000*, proving that a trusted partner can be a valuable asset to have. *Savings indicated are specific to the calculation dates and mentioned sites. These calculations may vary from site to site and from time to time, depending on, for example, the application, the operating conditions, the current product being used, the condition of the equipment and the maintenance practices. Products and Services Make sure your business is built on the strongest of foundations with our portfolio of high-quality lubricants and expert services. Three Ways Shell Can Deliver Value to Your Operations Find out how the Shell LubeExpert service could help your team to dig a little deeper when it comes to their maintenance efforts. Discover our Lubricants Services Learn more about our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Where to buyProductsExplore our range of high quality lubricants. Designed by technological experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce vehicle downtime. Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluids Choosing the right fire-resistant fluid can be a complex decision and involves balancing product performance, cost and regulatory requirements. Wind Power We ensure wind power is as competitive as possible so that its contribution to the energy mix can increase. Shell Argina & Gadinia – Power Engine Oils Shell Argina is designed for use in heavy fuel (LSFO & HSFO). Shell Gadinia meets the needs of engines burning distillates and liquid biofuels. Shell Coolants Shell coolants are formulated to exceed the engine performance requirements for vehicles of all shapes and sizes, from city cars to mining machines. Shell Corena - Compressor oils The Shell Corena range of air compressor oils has been developed to deliver optimum lubrication for your industrial needs. Shell Diala Transformer Oils All Shell Diala electrical oils are designed to offer excellent heat transfer and dielectric properties, even at the lowest start-up operating temperatures, for both transformer and power station applications. Electric vehicle fluids: Lubricating the future of mobility The Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases range is designed to effectively and efficiently meet a broad range of performance requirements and is engineered specifically for the high-tech powertrains of electrified vehicles. Shell Gadus Greases The Shell Gadus range has been developed to deliver best value through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and system efficiency. Shell Morlina - Bearing and circulating oils The Shell Morlina product range of bearing and circulating oils has been designed to match your unique technical and operational needs for bearing and circulating systems. Shell Mysella - Stationary Gas Engine Oils Shell’s portfolio of stationary gas engine oils enables you to choose the right lubricant for your equipment to deliver optimum value. Shell Omala Gearbox Oils Drive system efficiency, increase productivity and reduce your total cost of ownership with the Shell Omala range of gearbox oils. Shell Risella X - Process Oils Shell Risella X oils are high-quality technical white oils, based on gas to liquids (GTL) technology, that offer valuable performance advantages suiting a range of applications including: crop protection spray oils, defoamers, explosives, fertilisers, hot-melt adhesives, optical cable fill gels, petroleum jelly, textile and leather auxiliaries and thermoplastic elastomers. Get maximum protection for your vehicle operations The Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and automatic transmission lubricants has been developed to provide choice when selecting the right oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations. Shell Tellus – Better than ever Choosing the right oil can reduce costs and equipment downtime. Save time and money with Shell Tellus. Shell Tonna - Slideways oils Shell Tonna is designed to lubricate machine tool slides, tables and feed mechanisms. Find out today how it can give reliable protection for your slideways, gears, bearings and hydraulic system components. Shell Turbo - Turbine oils The Shell Turbo range of turbine oil has been developed to ensure outstanding oxidative stability and to resist the effects of water contamination on turbines and turbocompressors. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Industry Insights Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Shell LubeMatch Use this free online service to find the right lubricants for your vehicles and equipment in seconds. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell Argina & Gadinia – Power Engine OilsShell Argina is designed for use in heavy fuel (LSFO & HSFO). Shell Gadinia meets the needs of engines burning distillates and liquid biofuels. These engine oils are suitable for three distinct applications: Marine propulsion engines for small to mid-size vessels Marine auxiliary engines Stationary power generation Shell Argina & Gadinia Product Range Shell’s range of power-generation engine oils are designed to minimise deposit build-up and to keep your engine clean. Explore the range. Download the Shell Power Engine Brochure Shell Lubricants keeping the Power plants running There is an increasing demand for electricity today in emerging economies like Bangladesh. But with new challenges and new environments, come new products, like Shell’s Argina S5. Shell Lubricants - keeping the power plants running. New Shell Argina range Modern engines need new oils to cope with increased oil stress. These oils must last longer to reduce consumption and waste-oil disposal costs and offer enhanced cleanliness, viscosity control and base-number retention. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Enhanced wear protection Because different air compressors have different needs, the Shell Corena range includes both dedicated rotary compressor oils as well as oils for reciprocating compressors. From vane to valve wear, we have you covered. Extended oil life Whether you need a mainstream oil for standard life applications or advanced synthetic oil that can last up to three years, the Shell Corena range prioritises oil life – meaning you can reduce maintenance costs over the long term. High system efficiency Don’t let pressure loss affect your operations. Designed to promote system efficiency, Shell Corena oils suppress foaming and release trapped air, helping to keep your compressors working as they were intended. Reliable performance Thanks to extended equipment service life, the Shell Corena range helps your equipment to operate without interruption for longer, so you can be safe in the knowledge that it won’t let you down. Compressor oils and GTL technology Our gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology turns natural gas into high-performing liquid products. Using base oils derived from natural gas means fluids like our Shell Corena compressor oils can offer various benefits over mineral compressor oils: A lower volatility, leading to less oil consumption and strain on air treatment systems Faster air release and low evaporation loss, meaning less oil carryover A higher viscosity index and lower pour point, keeping oil close to its optimal viscosity across various ambient temperatures A lower viscosity at cold start, which reduces the drive torque requirement Together, these characteristics combine for flawless operation, low oil consumption and energy savings – providing a next-generation fluid solution for modern air compressors, no matter your industry or application. Sector applications Whether you use mobile or stationary compressors, across standard life or severe applications, our range can flex to your specific compressor needs – all the while providing you with the operational essentials that could make the difference between industry standard and industry-leading performance. Metals case study Supported by Shell technical training, Shell Corena S4 R 46 saw this metals plant increase its oil-drain intervals by 12.5% – find out more. Download case study General Manufacturing case study Learn how Shell Corena S4 R 68 and Shell LubeAnalyst combined to help this manufacturing company reduce its oil consumption by 100%. Download case study Cement case study Thanks to a 70% reduction in maintenance time, Shell Corena S3 R 46 helped this cement company to estimated annual savings of $871,000. Download case study Marine case study Discover how Shell Corena S4 P contributed to a doubling in interval time between air compressor overhauls, cutting waste oil volume and supporting maintenance practices. Download case study Disclaimer 1. For more information around performance characteristics, test results and technical claims, please consult our Shell Corena product brochure, here. All data us derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods. For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Lubricants For Metals From gear oils to greases, explore our range of lubricants for the metals industry. Lubricants For General Manufacturing Designed to enhance the productivity of your production lines, discover our lubricants for manufacturing. Lubricants For Cement Strengthen your cement business’ foundations with a lubricants portfolio that has performance at its core. Enhanced Protection Extend the operational lifetime of your transformers with a range of oils designed to keep your components in service for longer. Longer oil life Extend oil drain intervals to maximise the potential of your equipment and keep it running at peak productivity with longer oil life. Exceptional performance Provide excellent protection for your transformers under higher loads and across a wide range of operating temperatures. Resistance to corrosion Eliminate the risk of oil-related copper corrosion from sulphur build-up with transformer oils that are effectively sulphur free. Consistent reliability Avoid unplanned downtime to maintain the reliability and efficiency of your operations with the best possible protection for all applications. Operational Simplicity Choose the right transformer oils with confidence, from a range of fluids designed to match your specific needs. Transformer oils and GTL technology Oils based on gas-to-liquid (GTL) technology provide an effective choice of lubrication for use with electrical equipment – from distribution transformers to high-voltage, direct current transformers. GTL transformer oils – such as Shell Diala S4 ZX-I, Shell Diala S4 ZX-IG and Shell Diala S5 BD – offer some clear improvements over conventional mineral-based products. As well as helping to enhance the protection of your transformer components, they can increase the efficiency of your equipment – including in low-temperature conditions. Transformer oils based on GTL technology also provide you with consistent performance, helping you to increase the reliability of your equipment. Plus, they are simple to introduce to your lubrication systems due to their compatibility with most conventional transformer oils. Demonstrate your sustainability credentials with Shell Diala S5 BD As electricity demand continues to grow, power generation is expanding into diverse and often ecologically sensitive locations. Making sure that your transformers on these sites have a high standard of environmental protection is critical. A key element of this is biodegradability. From offshore wind to solar farms in the desert, it is important to protect the surrounding natural environment – and reduce the impact of unexpected leaks. Shell Diala S5 BD is designed to be a high-performance, readily biodegradable oil that gives you peace of mind in operations where performance and environmental impact are both critical priorities. Meeting, and exceeding, industry-standard tests, it helps you to drive the efficiency of your operations while also demonstrating your sustainable credentials. Drive performance and sustainability Find out how you can meet growing demand for energy without compromising on sustainability by using Shell Diala S5 BD. Download Shell Diala S5 BD infographic Protect environmentally sensitive locations Explore the positive difference a high-performance, readily biodegradable transformer oil can make to your environmental impact. Download Shell Diala S5 BD infographic Improve cold temperature performance See how to overcome the challenges of operating in extreme low temperatures with lubrication that works in the harshest conditions. Download Shell Diala S5 BD infographic Reducing equipment costs in Germany Discover how a German manufacturer was able to save $250,000 through optimisation enabled by Shell Diala. Download our case study Driving low-temperature performance in China See how Shell Diala improved reliability and reduced transformer operating costs by 68% for one energy company. Download our case study Disclaimers: 1 All data shown is derived from tests in laboratories at Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods * Shell Diala S4 ZX-I, Shell Diala S4 ZX-IG & Shell Diala S5 BD meet or exceed the specification of IEC60296 Ed5 (2020). For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Lubricants for Wind Power Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Shell Omala Gearbox Oils Drive system efficiency, increase productivity and reduce your total cost of ownership with the Shell Omala range of gearbox oils. Transmission & Distribution Modern transformers are facing increased loads and higher voltages. Do your lubricants provide the protection they need to perform? Transformer with Shell Diala S5 BD successfully tested by Siemens Energy for Tennet ProjectShell supplied Shell Diala S5 BD, a state-of-the-art, readily biodegradable transformer oil, as part of a joint sustainability project of Siemens Energy, TenneT, and Shell. The collaboration decided to fill the power transformer for TenneT’s transformer substation in Schwandorf, Germany with Shell Diala S5 BD. The unit is currently the biggest three-phase TenneT grid transformer in Germany with a rating of 650MVA / 400kV, and the power transformer is securing the high demand of energy in the southern part of Germany. Shell Diala S5 BD is a state-of-the-art, readily biodegradable transformer oil made with Sulphur-free GTL Technology. The GTL innovation platform began in 2010, with the successful development and market introduction of Shell Diala S4 ZX-I. Based on the robust field experiences of Shell Diala S4 ZX-I and new market requests for more environmentally acceptable fluids, the further development of Shell Diala S5 BD was a logical step. Shell Diala S5 BD is a high-grade, inhibited transformer oil with a high degree of compositional consistency that meets and exceeds the IEC 60296 Ed5 (type A) specification in addition to OECD 301B. The oil is fully miscible and compatible with conventional mineral oils, which is beneficial for top-up, replacement, and standardization. Sulphur-free GTL Technology also eliminates the risk of corrosion caused by corrosive Sulphur and offers superb oxidation stability, resulting in extended transformer oil life. Shell Diala S5 BD also offers extreme cold temperature performance and is already generating demand from electrical projects that may experience arctic temperatures. The transformer has successfully passed the factory acceptance test at the Siemens Energy factory in Nuremberg, Germany and all technical parameters were met as expected from TenneT’s side. The unit is ready for dispatch to its deployment site in the substation Schwandorf some 90 kms east of Nuremberg. The end customer, TenneT, is a leading European grid operator and manages the high- and extra-high voltage grid in the Netherlands and large parts of Germany. As the first cross-border Transmission System Operator, TenneT designs, builds, maintains, and operates 24,500 km of high-voltage electricity grid. After technical examination of the transformer oil's parameters, TenneT chose Shell Diala S5 BD. The performance of Shell Diala S5 BD is high-level with proven Shell Diala S4 ZX-I, combined with the big advantage of biodegradability. TenneT sees Shell Diala S5 BD transformer oil as an important step towards a more sustainable transformer. “Shell believes that improving sustainability credentials does not mean sacrificing performance,” said Ed van Schaik, Product Application Specialist for Shell Diala Transformer Oils. “Shell Diala S5 BD supports transformer operators in overcoming the biggest challenges currently facing the industry, by enabling their equipment to handle harsh cold climates and new environmental needs. By diminishing downtime and extending effective transformer life, Shell Diala S5 BD helps businesses lower Total Cost of Ownership of equipment.” “Without any compromises in terms of performance and durability, we jointly provide add value and strengthen our customer’s market appearance,” said Mate Sicenica, Sales Director of the Siemens Energy Transformer Factory Nuremberg. “On top, we take over responsibility towards our nature and society. A big thanks to Shell and TenneT for all their support and assistance during the whole project execution.” Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Open Gear Developed using Shell’s extensive experience in cement, mining and other heavy industries, our speciality greases protect open gears in the most demanding conditions. Wind Turbines Formulated to meet the needs of equipment from all major OEMs, our next-generation blade bearing grease leads the way in protection for onshore and offshore wind turbines. Read more about blade bearing greases Transport Keep your vehicles operating at peak performance across longer mileage through enhanced wear protection, long grease life and extreme-pressure additives. Find the right grease for your fleet Robotics and Automation Our grease technology for robotic arms is designed to improve performance, sustain precision and enhance the reliability of your operations. Read more about RV reducer greases Electric Vehicles Designed especially for electric vehicles, our e-grease provides excellent performance in noise reduction, controlled friction and wear protection. Learn more about electric vehicle grease Extreme Temperature Protection The Shell Gadus range includes Shell’s synthetic greases designed to help protect bearings under extreme temperatures, heavy loads and contaminated conditions. Long Grease Life The longer your grease lasts, the longer your components last and the less lubrication maintenance your equipment needs. Shell Gadus greases are designed to help your equipment continue operating without interruption. System Efficiency Shell Gadus greases can help to maintain or even heighten the efficiency of your systems, even under harsh working conditions. Disclaimers: [1] All data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Sector Expertise: Powering progress across industries Find out the sector-specific lubricant solutions offered and developed by Shell industry experts. General Manufacturing Ramp up productivity with manufacturing lubricants and services that are designed to help you get more from your machinery. Wind Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions. Construction Learn how a simple upgrade to your lubrication could help unlock cost savings and safety improvements in construction. Agriculture Push your farming operations to the limit by partnering with our technical experts and their bespoke lubrication solutions. Mining Find the solutions you need to keep your mining and quarrying operations safe, sustainable, and successful. Metals Get guidance on maintenance, products and service best practice, tailored for steel industry operations. Fleet Improve your fuel economy, lower your emissions and reduce operating costs, with lubrication procedures that prioritise efficiency. Load Carrying and Wear Prevention Help your equipment shoulder the heaviest loads by reducing wear. Friction Reduction Protection Provide industry-leading friction reduction to improve efficiency and protect components. Protection Against Vibration Damage Get excellent protection against damage caused by frequent start-stop motion. Avoiding Oil Leakages Anti-leakage properties give you one less thing to worry about in your operations. Superior Corrosion Protection Prevent the build-up of rust on your equipment, even in humid environments. Low Temperature Protects components across a wider temperature range. Rotary Vector (RV) Reducer Trials² In partnership with a leading RV OEM, Shell conducted a complex testing programme under real-life operating conditions. The rigorous tests highlighted Shell Gadus S4 V80XE 00 as the highest performer with: Significant extension to RV service life Longer relubrication intervals Improved lower temperature performance Reduced iron (Fe) contamination in the grease Disclaimers: [1] All data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods [2] Rotary Vector Reducer Trials are derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods, taken from the Shell Gadus S4 V80XE 00 brochure. For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Shell Robotic Gear Oil Discover how these high-performance synthetic lubricants can provide an oil-drain interval in excess of 24,000 hours of service, no matter your operating temperature. How breakthroughs in robotics are levelling up the productivity and safety of industrial workforces We interview robotics expert Berry Mulder to explore the future of robotics in industrial businesses – and how robots will soon become our digital colleagues. Why your business should already be experimenting with industrial AI Explore practical applications of AI for industrial businesses as we talk to Amy Challen, Shell’s Global Head of AI, about the technology’s exciting potential. Noise Reduction Shell Gadus E6 2400 rates the quietest in accredited industry tests, with greater noise reduction properties compared to competitors.1 Controlled Friction Low friction is critical in reducing battery power consumption, and Shell Gadus E6 2400 shows reduced friction in tests compared to competitors.1 Corrosion Protection Shell Gadus E6 2400 has achieved an outstanding protection rating against corrosive salt water in recognised industry testing.1 Leakage Prevention The long-life synthetic technologies in Shell Gadus maintain structure for longer periods, improving shear stability in tests compared to competitors.1 Excellent Low-Temperature Use Formulated with synthetic base oils and optimised thickener technology, Shell Gadus delivers effective grease mobility at low temperatures.1 Exceptional Low Odour Shell Gadus E6 2400 rates 2.5 on a 1 (imperceptible) to 6 (intolerable) scale in standard industry odour testing.1 Compatible with your EV needs Developed using our extensive lubricants expertise, our range of e-greases are designed to work with the full range of electric vehicles. We’ve partnered with leading OEMs to support battery electric vehicles (BEV) and fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEV) in powertrains for passenger car vehicles, commercial vehicles and heavy-duty vehicles. In addition, the Shell E-Greases portfolio is contributing to improving the sustainability footprint of electric vehicles and is available worldwide through Shell’s extensive supply chain. E-Transmission Fluids Superior Synchronizer Compatibility Outstanding Electrical Properties Excellent Copper Corrosion Excellent Shear Stability Excellent Thermal and Oxidation Stability Well-balanced Friction and Clutch Performance Novel Antifoam Technology Excellent Cooling to the E-Motor E-Thermal Fluids Excellent Thermo-Dynamic Properties Very High Oxidative and Thermal Stability High Compositional Consistency High Cost Effectiveness vs. Fluorocarbon Materials Outstanding Compatibility with Construction Materials Excellent Conductive Heat Transfer Co-Engineered with Battery Designs to Mitigate Flammability Risk E-Greases Excellent Thermal and Oxidation Stability Excellent High Speed Performance Noise Reducing Capability Outstanding Electrical Properties Very High Energy Efficiency Disclaimers: [1] All data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Shell Spirax The Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and automatic transmission lubricants has been developed to provide choice when selecting the right oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations. Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell E-Fluids The Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases range is designed to effectively and efficiently meet a broad range of performance requirements and is engineered specifically for the high-tech powertrains of electrified vehicles. Why choose Shell Gadus OG greases? The Shell Gadus OG greases range delivers a tailored and reliable solution to the challenges of maintaining open gear operations and improving efficiency in cement and mining production facilities. Along with their proven load-carrying capacity and protection for open gears under shock loads, it delivers the right balance of additives to reduce wear. Optimal graphite levels also provide emergency lubrication should unexpected spray system failures occur. In line with Shell’s focus on safety, all our greases are REACH compliant, contain no harmful chemicals or heavy metals, and are easy for maintenance teams to apply. The Shell Gadus OG greases range offers high-performance open gear protection – helping to maximise equipment life, minimise downtime and optimise grease consumption. Combined with regular inspections and services such as Shell LubeExpert that provide on-site maintenance support, Shell Gadus OG greases can help you increase productivity and make the most of your equipment. Higher base oil viscosity Protects against high and shock load, and wear Pumps reliably in extreme temperature and through long and high systems Protects against dust combination and rust from humidity Helps reduce carbon footprint Choose the right product for you Shell Gadus greases for mobile equipment Mining Product Low temp (-50ºC to +10ºC) Gadus S4 OGXK and Gadus S2 OGXK Multi-season (-20ºC to +40ºC) Gadus S4 OGMS and Gadus S2 OGMS High Temp (-10ºC to +50ºC) Gadus S4 OGT and Gadus S2 OGT Shell Gadus greases for fixed equipment Mining Product AGMA required Gadus S4 OGFP AGMA not required Gadus S4 OGH 3000 Cement Product Spray system Gadus S4 OGH 3000 and Gadus S2 OGH 1000 Bath system Gadus S4 OGH 3000B Shell Lubricants for Mining Find the solutions you need to keep your mining and quarrying operations safe, sustainable, and successful. Shell Lubricants for Cement Get lubricant products and services designed to improve the productivity and energy efficiency of your cement operations. Shell LubeExpert LubeExperts offer on-site customer support, helping to resolve problems and optimise lubrication. Water Resistance No need to replace your greases every time your vehicles encounter water and spray. Wear Protection Avoid breakdowns caused by extreme pressure from heavy loads and bumps in the road. Rust Inhibition Prevent the build-up of rust to keep your vehicles running for longer. Lasting Protection Long operational life at both high and low temperatures. Improving road safety with fifth wheel grease The correct greasing of your truck’s fifth wheel has a critical role to play in maintaining safety on the road. Insufficient greasing can cause high friction that leads to the reduced manoeuvrability of your truck – potentially causing fifth wheel failure, a trailer drop or a severe accident. Shell Gadus Fifth Wheel Grease is an easy-to-apply and easy-to-store grease. It offers outstanding load-carrying capability for proper lubrication, reduced friction and effective wear protection. Why use fifth-wheel grease Not greasing enough, using low-quality grease or over-greasing can all compromise road safety. Read more Choose the right fifth wheel grease Choosing the right fifth wheel grease is an important step in ensuring effective lubrication and maximising road safety. Find out more How to apply fifth wheel grease The goal when greasing your truck’s fifth wheel is to ensure that a thin and even film of grease covers the whole of the fifth wheel. Learn more Disclaimers: [1] All data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Shell Gadus for EV The Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases portfolio is carbon neutral to improve the sustainability footprint of electric vehicles and is available worldwide. Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Spirax The Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and automatic transmission lubricants has been developed to provide choice when selecting the right oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations. Longer Service Life Extend the service life of grease to enable longer maintenance intervals. Enhanced Protection Protect components against climatic and contamination challenges in diverse operating environments. Effective in High Winds Extra protection against wear from heavy loads when in high winds. Low Temperature Performance Protect your equipment with grease that works just as effectively in a wide temperature range. Disclaimers: [1] All data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Shell Omala The Shell Omala range of industrial gear oils enables you to match oil life to your operational needs providing less. Shell Tellus Choosing the right oil can reduce costs and equipment downtime. Save time and money with Shell Tellus. Shell Diala All Shell Diala electrical oils are designed to offer excellent heat transfer and dielectric properties, even at the lowest start-up operating temperatures, for both transformer and power station applications. Shell Morlina - Bearing and circulating oilsEfficient bearing and circulating systems are characterised by their ability to operate at or beyond their original design parameters. Consistent and reliable lubrication, whatever the operating conditions, is key.To meet the challenges of a wide range of equipment designs and applications, Shell has designed a portfolio of oils that enables you to choose a product to match your technical and operational needs. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Extended oil life As manufacturers push the boundaries of gas-engine design, in-service oils are forced to deliver longer oil-drain intervals (ODI). Which is why Shell Mysella engine oils have been formulated to reliably navigate low-oil consumption and high-temperature environments with Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra able to provide up to 4,000 hours ODI2. Enhanced protection Growing energy demands mean gas engines are exposed to increasingly severe conditions. To protect against high temperatures and pressures, Shell Mysella oils deliver superior deposit control – keeping your ring belts, pistons and cylinder liners less susceptible to wear. Reliable operations Amid extreme environments, downtime becomes a more realistic outcome. Fortunately, the ongoing protection provided by Shell Mysella reduces the likelihood of unexpected maintenance or part replacement, providing a reliable operation by sustaining planned maintenance intervals. Improved performance in sour gas application Since engines fuelled by sour gases can rapidly reduce the oil life of more traditional gas engine lubricants, Shell Mysella provides superior acid neutralisation – reducing the corrosion of engine components and lowering sludge formation. Why stationary gas engines are on the rise The growing demand for cleaner energy, the need for reliable supply, and a shift toward decentralised power generation have combined to create perfect conditions for stationary gas engines to rise in prominence. Due to their flexibility and strong performance characteristics, gas engines are increasingly being used as part of: Peaking power plants – As providers of electric power to the grid, these plants rely on stability and flexibility whether they are ramping up or winding down, making gas engines a perfect solution. District heating – As a more reliable and responsive alternative to gas turbines or coal, stationary gas engines are more frequently integrated into combined heat and power (CHP) plants. Commercial buildings – With greater energy needs, and a demand for the supply to be as reliable as possible, commercial units see gas engines as a good fit for their operational needs. Mysella S7 N Ultra: Powering next-generation stationary gas engines2 As engine technology and designs have evolved to meet changing power demands, so have the gas-engine oils that keep them operating as efficiently as possible. Suitable for highly-rated, 4-stroke, spark-ignition engines – especially those with steel pistons – Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra embodies these lubricant developments, providing power sector operators with: 4,000 hours ODI – Up to double the current industry performance for oil life. Excellent deposit handling – Contributing to trouble-free piston running, having been proven over 45,000+ hours of field test trials in more than 10 Jenbacher Type 6 engines. 24+ bar brake mean effective pressure (BMEP) – Extends ODI for the 24 bar BMEP market, with the capacity to support future engines that have an even higher BMEP. Download product sheet Take a deep dive into the advanced technology platform that Mysella S7 N Ultra is built on, and learn what it means for your engine’s performance. Download Mysella S7 N Ultra Product Sheet Download infographic See Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra’s key facts and figures, all in one place – from the qualities that help it protect components to how much it can extend your oil life by. Download Mysella S7 N Ultra Infographic Shell Mysella S5 S 40 case study As well as increasing ODI by 150%, Shell Mysella S5 S 40 helped this power company streamline its maintenance scheduling, reduce oil consumption, and boost uptime. Find out how. Download case study Shell Mysella S3 N 40 case study By integrating Shell Mysella S3 N 40, this energy company was able to increase its de-coking intervals by 66%. Discover how much the switch saved them in annual costs. Download case study Disclaimers 1 For more information around performance characteristics, test results and technical claims, please consult our Shell Mysella product brochure, here 2 Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra can provide up to 4,000 hours ODI, excellent handling and 24+ bar brake mean effective pressure (BMEP). Taken from the Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra, Powering next generation stationary gas engines product brochure. All data us derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods. For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Shell lubricants for power By generating savings, avoiding downtime and performing in extreme conditions, our lubricants for power companies are providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Shell Diala Our Shell Diala range of transformer oils help protect equipment throughout its entire lifetime, no matter the conditions. Find out how they can meet the varied demands of your own transformers. Shell Turbo From protecting turbine systems to powering cities, our Shell Turbo range of turbine oils help both power companies and plant operators to protect and perfect their equipment’s operation. Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra for Next-generation Gas EnginesGlobal demand for power is greater than ever, driving an evolution in stationary gas engines. However the more powerful the engine, the more extreme the operating conditions of the lubricating oil. Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra was designed to tackle the challenges of modern engine running environments.As the latest and most advanced formulation within the Shell Mysella family of lubricants, it ultra-extends oil life and offers excellent deposit handling.This will help to ensure greater reliability, protect components, reduce downtime and lower total cost of ownership.Helping to generate the power we need to keep the lights on. Expert Q&A: Powering Next-generation Gas Engines Luis Garcia, Technology Manager, Marine and Power Engine Lubricants, Shell Product Sheet: Mysella S7 N Ultra: Designed for High-pressure Stationary Gas Engines The specifications, benefits and performance features of the latest stationary gas engine oil in the Shell Mysella family Infographic: Helping to Generate Power to Keep the Lights On Find out how Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra ultra-extends oil life, protects components, reduces downtime and helps to boost the bottom line Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Expert Q&A: Powering Next-generation Gas EnginesShell’s Luis Garcia explains how Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra extends oil drain intervals, helping to ensure greater reliability,reduce downtime, protect components and lower total cost of ownership. Improve gearbox reliability Protect your gearbox components from wear and contamination, helping you to drive reliable equipment operations. Reduce maintenance downtime ₂ Extend oil drain intervals to maximise the potential of your equipment and lower the associated maintenance costs. Enhance system efficiency ₃ Increase productivity with effective lubrication that helps your equipment meet its capabilities and perform at optimal efficiency. 4 Increase load carrying capacity Extend the life of components by protecting them, even in arduous low-speed, high-torque working conditions. Disclaimers: 1 All data shown is derived from tests in laboratories at Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods, taken from the Shell Omala product range brochure 2 Data is taken from “From Extending Gearbox Life to Driving Industry” brochure Data is taken from “From Extending Gearbox Life to Driving Industry” brochure 3 Designed for high efficiency, Shell Omala S4 WE is designed to increased productivity, taken from Shell Omala S4 WE brochure 4 In the industry-standard oil life test, Shell Omala S4 GXV achieved up to 67% less thickening than the maximum allowed after 312 hours at 121 degrees centigrade to ensure efficient and consistent lubrication. Taken from Shell Omala S4 GXV brochure. For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Lubricants for wind Designed to thrive in remote locations and developed to perform in extreme conditions. Explore our range of specialised wind power solutions Lubricants for General Manufacturing Ramp up productivity with manufacturing lubricants and services that are designed to help you get more from your machinery. Lubricants for Mining Find the solutions you need to keep your mining and quarrying operations safe, sustainable, and successful. Shell Risella X - Process OilsShell Risella X oils are high-quality technical white oils, based on gas to liquids (GTL) technology, that offer valuable performance advantages.Shell Risella X oils offer excellent performance in selected applications because unlike other oils, they are made from pure synthesis gas. This leads to final products with a distinct molecular structure providing extra purity and excellent performance in selected applications. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Get maximum protection for your vehicle operationsImprove the productivity of your operations and realise cost savings with the Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and transmission oils formulated to keep your vehicles going when you need them most. From the highways to the fields, the building sites to the mine tunnels, Shell Spirax provides your equipment operations with the maximum protection, power and efficiency for each application. Four key applications for high-performance lubricants Explore the sectors where the Shell Spirax range of oils can help you deliver optimum performance: Increased vehicle uptime Avoid breakdowns with proven wear protection that extends component and vehicle life. Reduced maintenance costs Keep your vehicles operating for longer without interruption through extended oil drain intervals. Improved fuel efficiency Lower fuel consumption by reducing power loss and driving higher mechanical efficiency. 1 The Shell Spirax range of axle, gear and automatic transmission fluids has been developed to enable drivers, fleet owners and operators to select the oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations through enhanced wear protection, long oil life and efficiency. Taken from the Shell Spirax Product Family Brochure. All data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods. For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Lubricants for Fleet Improve your fuel economy, lower your emissions and reduce operating costs, with lubrication procedures that prioritise efficiency. Lubricants for Agriculture Push your farming operations to the limit by partnering with our technical experts and their bespoke lubrication solution. Lubricants for Construction Push your farming operations to the limit by partnering with our technical experts and their bespoke lubrication solution. Shell Tonna - Slideways oilsShell’s Tonna range is especially designed to lubricate machine tool slides, tables and feed mechanisms. With excellent frictional properties, very good slideway adhesion and excellent anti-wear performance, it can be relied on to provide efficient machining accuracy and reliable protection for your equipment. Shell Tonna S2 Premium machine tool slideway oil - with advanced adhesion properties and reduced stick-slip. Shell Tonna S3 M Best-in-class machine tool slideway oil - with excellent frictional properties and anti-wear performance. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Enhanced wear protection The anti-wear performance of Shell Turbo oils helps reduce the risk of turbine failure, even for heavily-loaded gearboxes. Extended oil life Because unplanned downtime has never been more expensive, Shell Turbo oils deliver exceptional oil life under continuous operation. Excellent system efficiency Rapid air release combines with excellent filterability to help you get the most from your turbines, time after time. High-temperature, fire-resistant performance Overcome increased operating temperatures and fire hazards with an oil that not only survives, but thrives, amid thermal stresses. Heavy-load protection Excellent load-carrying capacity means reliable performance, even under severe, peak-load operation or cyclic peak-loading conditions. Deposit and corrosion protection Selective additive combinations minimise deposits on parts like filters or bearings, reducing the likelihood of corrosion and wear. Choose the right product for you Applications From turbines to turbocompressors, the Shell Turbo range covers a number of specialist applications across industrial steam, light or heavy-duty gas, and combined-cycle systems, including those with specific needs relating to: High temperatures Enclosed gears Long life Flame resistance Load capacity High ammonia inertness Kaplan case study With no oil-related failures across 17 years of use, see how Shell Turbo Oil T 68 helped this hydroelectric power plant extend its oil life by 150%. Download case study Toshiba case study Discover how, as part of a holistic package of products and support, Shell Turbo Oil T 32 delivered a 20-year service life for this mining company’s turbines. Download case study Voith Kapplan S case study Learn how, thanks to reductions in downtime, maintenance and oil cost, Shell Turbo Oil T 68 and Shell LubeAnalyst helped this company save $69,000 annually. Download case study IHI case study Not only did Shell Turbo Oil T 46 help this state-of-the-art automotive production line increase oil-drain intervals by 33%, but it also reduced unplanned compressor shutdowns to zero. Download case study Disclaimers: 1For more information around performance characteristics, test results and technical claims, please consult our Shell Turbo product brochure here: https://www.shell.co.uk/business-customers/lubricants-for-business/lubricants-product-range/shell-turbo-turbine-oils/download-the-shell-turbo-brochure.html All data is derived from tests in laboratories of Shell Lubricant Solutions or partners using accepted standard methods. For more product specific information, please visit www.epc.shell.com for more details. Shell lubricants for power By generating savings, avoiding downtime and performing in extreme conditions, our lubricants for power companies are providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Shell Diala Our Shell Diala range of transformer oils help protect equipment throughout its entire lifetime, no matter the conditions. Find out how they can meet the varied demands of your own transformers. Shell Omala Reduce the fluid maintenance your equipment requires with our Shell Omala range of gear oils, and in turn, help your gearboxes keep the wheels of industry moving. Wind PowerAs we transition to a lower-carbon future, we ensure wind power is as competitive as possible so that its contribution to the energy mix can increase. Shell has a diverse portfolio of gear oils, greases and hydraulic oils to meet the challenging needs of Wind Turbine manufacturers and Wind Turbine owners and operators. Wind turbines operate in some of the most remote locations and extreme conditions in the world. Machinery and engineers need to deliver peak performance in the most challenging environments. In a highly competitive market, even incremental efficiency gains can make a significant difference to the bottom line and downtime is hugely disruptive and expensive. As an owner of wind farms and the market leader for lubricants, Shell understands the realities of operating in this sector. We are your trusted partner, providing the expertise, services and training to deploy and maintain the most competitive and effective wind turbines. Together anything is possible. Lubricants for Power Providing solutions for an evolving energy environment. Power of Partnerships Discover how we can help you solve challenges and increase your business performance. Sector Expertise Discover Shell’s expertise in providing our customers the right products and the right advice across various sectors. Electric vehicle fluids: Lubricating the future of mobilityThe Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases range is designed to effectively and efficiently meet a broad range of performance requirements and is engineered specifically for the high-tech powertrains of electrified vehicles.With the rise of hybrid and electric vehicles, the automotive industry is going through a profound shift. For many of our customers e-mobility represents some of the biggest engineering and design changes in the industry’s history. At Shell, we’re working alongside our customers to help manage those challenges and meet the technical requirements placed on fluids in hybrids and electric vehicles. As the leading global lubricants manufacturer for the last 12 years, we have recently developed a new line of fluids for electric vehicles. But we are not stopping here, because as hybrids and electric vehicles continue to deliver a higher level of performance for consumers, we will continue our history of partnership with OEMs to engineer the most advanced, reliable e-fluids in the industry. Our Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases range introduces a complete portfolio for all types of electrified drivetrains. Shell E-fluids can now improve the reliability, efficiency and performance for electric powertrains from consumer vehicles such as EVs, through to commercial vehicles such as electric in-city delivery vans and hydrogen buses and long range trucks: Shell E-Transmission Fluid Shell E-Fluids E6 i Plus is engineered for integrated wet e-motor design battery electric vehicles. It has the latest cutting edge technology to exceed the latest electric vehicle transmission requirements. Specially formulated with synthetic base oils and additive technology unique to Shell and to provide our OEM partners and customers with a solution that exceeds the future demand of the electric vehicle transmissions. Shell E-Thermal Fluid Shell E-Thermal Fluid E5 M has been engineered for batteries, electric motors, inverters and fast chargers. It is based on non-corrosive zero sulphur base oil (GTL) technology and has been designed for a a range of high and low temperatures. Shell Thermal Fluids E5M is ready today for use in future immersive cooling applications where cells are in direct contact with the thermal fluid. Shell E-Grease Shell E-Grease E6 M is developed for high speed electrical motor bearing lubrication in both wet and dry e-motor design battery electric vehicles. Shell E-Grease E6 M uses our novel thickener technology to exceed the latest electric vehicle grease requirements. Specially formulated with synthetic base oils and the latest additive technology unique to Shell to provide our OEM partners and customers with a solution that exceeds the future demand of the electric vehicle bearing lubrication. Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases are based on our extensive lubricants expertise and we are able to offer our complete portfolio range carbon neutral. Our applications have been developed according to requirements of OEMs and tested in Formula E. Click here to see how these fluids can be used across multiple different electric vehicle types. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Introduction to E-Fluids and E-GreasesFind out why electric vehicles need effective lubrication to efficiently meet a broad range of performance requirements. Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases are based on our extensive lubricants expertise. We have partnered with leading OEMs to support battery electric (BEV) as well as fuel cell electric (FCEV) powertrains for passenger car vehicles, as well as commercial and heavy duty vehicles – ensuring that all types and sizes of electrified mobility can benefit from the extensive range of specialized Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases. In addition, the Shell E-Fluids portfolio is offered carbon neutral to improve the sustainability footprint of electric vehicles and is available worldwide through Shell’s extensive supply chain. E-Transmission Fluids Superior Synchronizer Compatibility Outstanding Electrical Properties Excellent Copper Corrosion Excellent Shear Stability Excellent Thermal and Oxidation Stability Well-balanced Friction and Clutch Performance Novel Antifoam Technology Excellent Cooling to the E-Motor E-Thermal Fluids Excellent Thermo-Dynamic Properties Very High Oxidative and Thermal Stability High Compositional Consistency High Cost Effectiveness vs. Fluorocarbon Materials Outstanding Compatibility with Construction Materials Excellent Conductive Heat Transfer Co-Engineered with Battery Designs to Mitigate Flammability Risk E-Greases Excellent Thermal and Oxidation Stability Excellent High Speed Performance Noise Reducing Capability Outstanding Electrical Properties Very High Energy Efficiency We have recently announced some exciting updates on E-Fluids for Electrified Commercial Vehicles, and our strategic alliance with Kreisel Electric. For more information on recent developments in the Shell E-Fluids & E-Greases space, please take a look at our recent announcements. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell Tellus S4 VEMeets and beats leading OEM approvals, advanced energy-efficient synthetic hydraulic fluid for mobile and stationary applications made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Learn more. If you want cost savings with extended oil life, wear protection, sludge control and a wider range of operating temperatures, Shell Tellus S4 VE fluid delivers. It’s an advanced performance, shear-stable hydraulic fluid with strong thermal and oxidative stability. In addition to meeting and beating standard industry and equipment manufacturers’ specification requirements, it exceeds the 10,000 hours maximum duration that can be measured in the industry-standard turbine oil stability test (TOST). Shell Tellus S4 VE is GTL-based and can help to deliver total cost of ownership savings with up to a 6% hydraulic productivity improvement compared with a mineral oil and reduce the energy losses from hydraulic pumps by up to 21% compared with a mineral-oil-based fluid. Progress and Innovation – Gas to Liquids Shell has a history of innovation in lubricants and was the first to market cleaner, purer lubricants made from natural gas. Proven advantage Up to 5% greater energy efficiency and 21% less energy loss from hydraulic pumps Improved protection Protect your investment with sludge resistance and lower varnish. Optimising performance and efficiency Shell Tellus S4 VE has extended oil-drain intervals in mobile and stationary equipment. Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Progress and Innovation – Gas to LiquidsShell has a history of innovation in lubricants and was the first to market cleaner, purer lubricants made from natural gas. The Gas to Liquid technology is a result of 45 years of research and development at Shell. GTL Base Oils represent an entirely new way of producing synthetic base oils – the main component of lubricants – from natural gas. Our proprietary process converts natural gas into crystal-clear base oils with virtually none of the impurities found in crude oil. Shell GTL base oils offer good viscosity retention under severe oxidation tests and help maintain performance, even at very high and very low temperatures. The lower density and high viscosity index of Shell GTL base oils lend themselves to producing energy-efficient formulations by reducing inertial and bulk viscosity pumping energy losses and improving the thermal conductivity relative to other Group III base oils. Learn more. Get more details on the benefits of GTL Shell Tellus S4 VE Meets and beats leading OEM approvals, advanced energy-efficient synthetic hydraulic fluid for mobile and stationary applications made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Proven advantage Up to 5% greater energy efficiency and 21% less energy loss from hydraulic pumps Improved protection Protect your investment with sludge resistance and lower varnish. Optimising performance and efficiency Shell Tellus S4 VE has extended oil-drain intervals in mobile and stationary equipment. Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Proven advantageUp to 5% greater energy efficiency and 21% less energy loss from hydraulic pumps. Learn more. In this challenging economic and competitive environment, your business may face cost, revenue and growth pressure. Shell is a partner that is invested in helping you to grow your business and deliver more. Innovative gas-to-liquids based oils are a good example of this. Today’s more compact mobile fluid power systems have smaller hydraulic fluid reservoirs and can be more susceptible to aeration. Because the fluid volumes are smaller, reservoir residence times can be as short as 30 seconds, which leaves little time for air release. Fluid aeration reduces the efficiency and responsiveness and increases the noise of hydraulic systems. To measure the impact of different base oils on this problem, we evaluated four ISO viscosity grade 46 fluids formulated with different base oils. The PAO and GTL-based oils had significantly faster air release compared with the mineral-based oils, which resulted in less entrained air and up to 8% greater volumetric efficiency. We also recorded a 50% perceived reduction in sound. The difference between PAO and GTL is then simple economics. Shell Tellus S4 VE Meets and beats leading OEM approvals, advanced energy-efficient synthetic hydraulic fluid for mobile and stationary applications made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Progress and Innovation – Gas to Liquids Another Hydraulic first from Shell, cleaner, purer lubricants made from natural gas. Improved protection Protect your investment with sludge resistance and lower varnish. Proven advantage Up to 5% greater energy efficiency and 21% less energy loss from hydraulic pumps Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell Tellus – A trusted family with new arrivalsMarket forces are increasing the business impact of your choice of oil. Shell Tellus has a range of proven options to cover different needs. Every part of your machine or process has been meticulously engineered to maximize performance. You should expect nothing less from your choice of lubricant. When you want a range of reliable options for different needs, Shell Tellus delivers. Our range of hydraulic fluids has been developed to enable equipment operators to select the oil that will deliver optimum value to their operations through enhanced wear protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. As the No.1 Hydraulic Oil manufacturer, we are in constant conversation with our customers, equipment manufacturers and academics to keep Shell Tellus exceeding expectations with efficiency today and in the future. Learn more Progress and Innovation – Gas to Liquids Shell has a history of innovation in lubricants and was the first to market cleaner, purer lubricants made from natural gas. Proven advantage Up to 5% greater energy efficiency and 21% less energy loss from hydraulic pumps Improved protection Protect your investment with sludge resistance and lower varnish. Optimising performance and efficiency Shell Tellus S4 VE has extended oil-drain intervals in mobile and stationary equipment. Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. See the Shell Tellus rangeGet more details on how Shell Tellus helps different needs Shell Tellus Family Brochure Shell Tellus – A trusted family with new arrivals S4 VE leaflet Up to 10,000 hours TOST Life, leading protection with the latest anti-sludge & varnish technology. Energy-efficient synthetic hydraulic GTL based fluid for mobile and stationary applications S3Z leaflet Up to 7,500 hours TOST Life, enhanced protection, industrial applications. Group II / GTL Synthetic Blend. S2 MX leaflet Up to 5,000 hours TOST Life, extra protection, industrial applications. Group II mineral/ Zinc-Based. Progress and Innovation – Gas to Liquids Shell has a history of innovation in lubricants and was the first to market cleaner, purer lubricants made from natural gas. Proven advantage Up to 5% greater energy efficiency and 21% less energy loss from hydraulic pumps Improved protection Protect your investment with sludge resistance and lower varnish. 5 reasons to be cheerful Choosing the right oil can make a major difference to your business. Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Control sludgeProtect your investment with sludge resistance and lower varnish. Equipment operating conditions, such as high temperatures or contaminants, can increase the likelihood of sludge formation that may affect your overall hydraulic system efficiency, lead to blocked filters and increase unplanned maintenance. Some are tempted to think that the answer lies solely in the quality and cleanliness of the filters. However many hydraulic oils depend on vital additives to deliver the right performance and sometimes filters can therefore reduce effectiveness. The optimal solution is to minimize the need for filtration in the first place. Shell Tellus S4 VE is designed to do just that. It’s reliable and long lasting while constantly working to minimize varnish and sludge. When you’re looking to maximize performance and cost efficiency – the best place to start is the right oil. To read more about how sludge and varnish can impact your productivity, please download our whitepaper. Shell Tellus S4 VE Meets and beats leading OEM approvals, advanced energy-efficient synthetic hydraulic fluid for mobile and stationary applications made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Progress and Innovation – Gas to Liquids Another Hydraulic first from Shell, cleaner, purer lubricants made from natural gas. Proven advantage Up to 5% greater energy efficiency and 21% less energy loss from hydraulic pumps. Optimising performance and efficiency Shell Tellus S4 VE has extended oil-drain intervals in mobile and stationary equipment. Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Maximise your oil lifeShell Tellus S4 VE has extended oil-drain intervals in mobile and stationary equipment Shell Tellus S4 VE fluid is an advanced-performance, shearstable hydraulic fluid with strong thermal and oxidative stability. In addition to meeting standard industry and equipment manufacturers’ specification requirements, Shell Tellus S4 VE exceeds the 10,000 hours maximum duration that can be measured in the industry-standard turbine oil stability test (TOST). Source: https://www.machinerylubrication.com/Read/367/temperature-stability TOST is an industry test to help differentiate a hydraulic oil’s life in operation. Although TOST life is not equal to a hydraulic oil’s operating life, it is an important test to help describe the durability of an oil in the field, especially when exposed to environmental stress and elements. Shell Tellus S4 VE Meets and beats leading OEM approvals, advanced energy-efficient synthetic hydraulic fluid for mobile and stationary applications made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Progress and Innovation – Gas to Liquids Another Hydraulic first from Shell, cleaner, purer lubricants made from natural gas. Optimising performance and efficiency Shell Tellus S4 VE has extended oil-drain intervals in mobile and stationary equipment. Improved protection Protect your investment with sludge resistance and lower varnish. Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Quality countsChoosing the right oil can make a major difference to your business. Get the facts. 1. The world’s no.1. now even better. The Shell Tellus family has become the world’s No.1 because it reliably delivers. Powering performance, our latest Shell Tellus Premium fluids help to make it possible. Enabling operators of hydraulic assets to access the benefits of Shell GTL base oils and the latest additive technology designed to maximise durability and efficiency of machinery in the field. 2. Improved protection A choice of fluids to protect customer’s assets through superior anti-wear, sludge & varnish properties. Not all hydraulic fluids are the same. 3. Performance and efficiency Making it possible by offering extended oil life, improved machine productivity and a focus on reducing asset owner’s energy and operating costs. 4. Collaboration and partnership excellence Developed in partnership with OEMs to meet and exceed the most stringent test methods. You want high performance from a name you can trust. Commitment to quality and reliability is why customers have made Shell Tellus the world’s No.1 Hydraulic Oil. 5. Progress and innovation in Hydraulic oils Formulated with Shell GTL fluids with a focus on continuous innovation to build a more sustainable future. That might be enough for some, but not us. We have worked hard to make the new Shell GTL based Shell Tellus S4 VE the flagship of the family. Designed to work even harder for you. Shell Tellus S4 VE Meets and beats leading OEM approvals, advanced energy-efficient synthetic hydraulic fluid for mobile and stationary applications made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Progress and Innovation – Gas to Liquids Another Hydraulic first from Shell, cleaner, purer lubricants made from natural gas. Shell Tellus – A trusted family with new arrivals Market forces are increasing the business impact of your choice of oil. Tellus has proven options to cover different needs. Optimising performance and efficiency Shell Tellus S4 VE has extended oil-drain intervals in mobile and stationary equipment. Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Frequently Asked QuestionsWe hope these answers are helpful. If you have additional questions or need further information, please contact your Shell representative. Shell Tellus S4 VE Meets and beats leading OEM approvals, advanced energy-efficient synthetic hydraulic fluid for mobile and stationary applications made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. 5 reasons to be cheerful Choosing the right oil can make a major difference to your business. Shell Tellus – A trusted family with new arrivals Market forces are increasing the business impact of your choice of oil. Tellus has proven options to cover different needs. Proven advantage Up to 5% greater energy efficiency and 21% less energy loss from hydraulic pumps Power of partnerships Shell expertise Sector expertise Industry insights Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Lubes Services Make informed decisions with easy-to-use digital tools and cutting-edge oil analysis. Our services put you in control. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Shell coolants help to prevent engine overheating, which can lead to breakdowns and costly repairs. Shell coolants are compatible with elastomer seals to prevent leaking. Shell coolants help to prevent water pump damage from cavitation, pitting and corrosion. Shell coolants protect cylinder liners from damage caused by cavitation, corrosion and pitting, and help prevent loss of efficiency. Shell coolants protect heat exchangers from damage caused by freezing, corrosion, scale and sediment, and provide effective heat transfer performance. Why choose Shell coolants Shell coolants are formulated to exceed the engine performance requirements for vehicles of all shapes and sizes, from city cars to mining machines. They help to reduce the cost of vehicle ownership by providing: Outstanding heat transfer to prevent overheating Excellent cooling system protection against freezing Long service life to reduce the need for costly maintenance Electric vehicle fluids: Lubricating the future of mobility The Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases range is designed to effectively and efficiently meet a broad range of performance requirements and is engineered specifically for the high-tech powertrains of electrified vehicles. Shell Rimula Shell Rimula’s adaptive technology gives outstanding wear protection with reduced viscosity for improved fuel economy. Lubricants for Automotive Components Our lubricants for automotive components are designed to help enhance the performance of your finished products and factory operations. Why should you use a fire-resistant lubricant? Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluids are specially formulated to avoid the propagation of a flame and are difficult to ignite – reducing potential fire hazards and improving safety. With more compact hydraulic systems that operate at growing power and under increasing pressure, fire risks are becoming more prominent in industrial settings – despite advances in safety. Hydraulic systems that operate in severe conditions, extreme temperatures or near an ignition source face an increased risk of fire. So, protecting your people, your equipment and your business from this is essential. Enhanced safety Reduce the risks of even your most demanding applications with hydraulic fluids engineered to protect your people and assets from increased fire hazards. Extended service life Avoid the need for maintenance with high-performance fluids and oil monitoring services to improve your productivity and lower your total cost of ownership (TCO). Find out more Wear protection Reduce your maintenance costs with enhanced anti-wear properties that keep your equipment components and hydraulic fluid systems running smoothly for longer. Find out more Operate in severe conditions Operate productively and safely in extremely high or low temperatures, with consistent viscosity delivering responsive performance. Find out more Reduce your impact on the environment Mining or steel operations in environmentally sensitive settings need hydraulic fluids that not only deliver high levels of protection to equipment but also help you reduce the impact, of an accidental leak or spill, to the ecosystems around your facilities. Our portfolio of specially formulated fire-resistant hydraulic fluids are difficult to ignite and designed not to propagate a flame from an ignition source, in comparison to mineral-based fluids. It also features products that are classified as readily biodegradable with low eco-toxicity – engineered to reduce the impact of spills and leaks, helping you meet your environmental responsibilities. Discover our fire-resistant hydraulic fluids Our portfolio of fire-resistant hydraulic fluids is designed for effective fire-risk reduction, across a range of metal, industrial and mobile applications. Using fire-resistant lubricants is a cost-effective option compared with installing mechanical fire-suppression equipment. We help customers to make the right selection for their business through a detailed dialogue about the products that could, and should, be selected for each application. This advice draws on Shell’s expertise with the products and the customer’s understanding of the end use. Explore our fire-resistant portfolio Product Technology ISO VISCOSITY GRADES Benefits & Applications Shell Turbo S5 DR HFDR: tri-aryl phosphate based on butylated phenol 46 Good oxidation and hydrolytic stability, low foaming. FM Approved, ISO 12922. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU HFDU: nonaqueous synthetic polyalkylene glycol (PAG/ HPEG) 46, 68, 100 Excellent wear protection, oxidation and thermal stability, FM Approved. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU HFDU: nonaqueous synthetic organic esters (HEES) 46, 68 Good wear protection and system efficiency. Readily biodegradable1, low toxicity, >80% bio-based. FM Approved, ISO 12922 Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU HFDU: nonaqueous natural ester (HETG) and polyalkylene glycol (PAG) blend 32, 40, 60 Good wear protection. Readily biodegradable1, low toxicity, USDA certified. FM Approved Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX 46 HFC: Water-glycol 46 High-pressure performance up to 4,000 psi, all-season performance. FM Approved, ISO 12922 Shell Turbo S5 DR A high-performance phosphate ester (HFDR) self-extinguishing fire-resistant fluid, Shell Turbo S5 DR features a high flash point, high fire point and high auto ignition temperature. It can be used as the hydraulic fluid in electrohydraulic governor controls (EHC) systems in steam and gas turbines. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU As a fully synthetic readily biodegradable¹ formulation (46,68), FM- approved Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU delivers performance that is superior to premium anti-wear mineral oils and offers significant performance and environmental advantages over other fluid options, including other synthetics. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU Enhance the protection of industrial equipment in steel mills, mines and foundries with readily biodegradable¹ anhydrous fluid based on synthetic organic esters. Shell Fire-Resistant S2 DU is FM Approved, USDA Bio-preferred certified and MSHA (68) approved. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU Reduce the risk of fire with Shell Fire-Resistant S1 DU, formulated by blending natural esters with polyalkylene glycol (PAG). Shell Fire-Resistant S1 DU is readily biodegradable1, FM approved and USDA Bio-preferred certified. Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX 46 A water-glycol (HFC) fire-resistant hydraulic fluid, designed for hydraulic systems that operate at pressures of up to 4,000 psi with a fire-resistant hydraulic fluid that offers high-level protection against corrosion and pump wear. Make a safe switch to fire-resistant hydraulic fluids Switching from a mineral oil to a water-based or synthetic hydraulic fluid with fire-resistant properties is an effective way to improve the safety of your facilities. Using fire-resistant lubricants is a cost-effective option compared with installing mechanical fire-suppression equipment. However, care must be taken to ensure the conversion is carried out correctly. It is important to review OEM requirements to confirm the compatibility of a lubricant with system components (including seals, hoses and filters). Even when using compatible lubricants, a small quantity of mineral oil can impair the fire resistance and stability of the new hydraulic fluid. Similarly, when converting from one fire-resistant fluid category to another, the lubricants must not come into contact. Mixing incompatible lubricants can result in equipment failure. Even hydraulic fluids from the same category, but from different suppliers, should not be mixed unless you can clearly establish their compatibility. Be sure to consult with suppliers when looking to switch to an alternative hydraulic fluid. Disclaimers: 1Shell Fire Resistant S1 DU, S2 DU and S3 DU are biodegradable by greater than 60% after 28 days in the OECD 301B Carbon dioxide evolution test. Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Deliver peak performance in extreme conditions Operating in severe conditions presents your hydraulic systems with additional performance challenges, meaning the lubricants you use need to provide optimum protection at wide temperature ranges. From protection against cavitation in cold start-ups to extra durability in extreme heat, Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU helps keep your hydraulic systems operating productively under these conditions. Inherently fire-resistant, Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU improves the safety of your operations with a high flash point, high fire point and a high auto-ignition temperature to minimise the risk of fire. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU provides outstanding pump life under severe conditions – delivering excellent shear stability and high levels of protection against wear and scuffing. Combining high viscosity with excellent low-temperature fluidity, Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU provides year-round protection for your equipment – keeping it running smoothly. Protect your equipment and the environment When operating in environmentally sensitive settings, you need to know that your hydraulic fluids are not only able to protect your equipment but also help you to mitigate any impact on local ecosystems. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU is engineered to work in a wide range of settings and has been designed to help you meet your environmental responsibilities. Designed to be readily biodegradable, Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU with ISO viscosity grades 46 and 68 give you greater peace of mind across applications in environmentally sensitive areas. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU is recognised by FM Global as an inherently fire-resistant industrial fluid, suitable for high-pressure systems where fire hazards are a concern. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU 46 has a biodegradability of more than 60% after 28 days in the OECD 301 B carbon dioxide evolution test. Lower operating costs with longer service life Hydraulic systems operating in severe conditions often require shorter maintenance intervals. Fluid degradation reduces the service life of lubricants and forces you to replace them more often. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU is engineered to minimise fluid degradation and extend fluid changeout intervals – even under the most extreme conditions. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU helps to extend the life of equipment and requires less frequent changeouts than mineral oil-based fluids. In many cases, this fluid can be used four times longer than non-synthetic fluids. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU is developed to provide high resistance against sludge and varnish, keeping your hydraulic system cleaner for longer and reducing the need for maintenance. Unlike phosphate esters, polyol esters and vegetable oils, Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU will not react with water, thereby minimising the fluid degradation and acid formation that can damage and eventually destroy hydraulic pumps. This lowers your consumption and helps to reduce your operating costs in comparison to mineral oil-based fluids. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU specifications Properties Method ISO 46 ISO 68 ISO 100 ISO viscosity grade ISO 3448 46 68 100 Kinematic viscosity at 40°C, mm 2/5 ISO 3104/ASTM D445 50.0 68.0 100.0 Kinematic viscosity at 100°C, mm 2/5 ISO 3104/ ASTM D445 9.5 12.3 17.0 Viscosity index ISO 2909/ ASTM D2270 178 181 189 Density at Kinematic viscosity at 15°C, g/cm³ ASTM D1298 0.992 0.993 0.993 Flash point (Cleveland open cup), °C ISO 2592/ ASTM D92 279 281 281 Fire point (Cleveland open cup), °C ISO 2592/ ASTM D92 315 319 319 Autoignition temperature, °C ASTM E659 388 394 - Air release at 50°C, min ASTM D3427 3 5.5 - Air release at 75°C, min ASTM D3427 - - 4.0 Pour point, °C ISO 3016/ASTM D97 -45 -42 -39 FZG scuffing (A/8.3/90), failure load stage ISO 14635-1 13 13 13 Shell Turbo S5 DR A high-performance phosphate ester (HFDR) self-extinguishing fire-resistant fluid, Shell Turbo S5 DR features a high flash point, high fire point and high auto ignition temperature. It can be used as the hydraulic fluid in electrohydraulic governor controls (EHC) systems in steam and gas turbines. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU Enhance the protection of industrial equipment in steel mills, mines and foundries with readily biodegradable¹ anhydrous fluid based on synthetic organic esters. Shell Fire-Resistant S2 DU is FM Approved, USDA Bio-preferred certified and MSHA (68) approved. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU Reduce the risk of fire with Shell Fire-Resistant S1 DU, formulated by blending natural esters with polyalkylene glycol (PAG). Shell Fire-Resistant S1 DU is readily biodegradable1, FM approved and USDA Bio-preferred certified. Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX 46 Water-glycol (HFC) fire-resistant hydraulic fluid, designed for hydraulic systems that operate at pressures of up to 4,000 psi with a fire-resistant hydraulic fluid that offers high-level protection against corrosion and pump wear. Shell Tellus Improve protection against wear and increase system efficiency with an extensive range of hydraulic fluids designed to maintain productive operations in all conditions. Disclaimers: 1 Shell Fire Resistant S1 DU, S2 DU and S3 DU are biodegradable by greater than 60% after 28 days in the OECD 301B Carbon dioxide evolution test. Deliver peak performance in extreme conditions With a higher autoignition temperature and greater heat release compared with traditional mineral oils, Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU reduces the risk of fluid ignition and is ideally suited to operating environments subject to fire hazards, such as steel mills, surface mines, foundries, tunnel boring and other metal, mining and glass industries. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU is a versatile fluid designed to reduce fire risk and enhance system efficiency and hydraulic equipment wear protection across a range of challenging operating environments Excellent cleanliness and filterability characteristics, and excellent water separation, air release and anti-foaming properties help to keep hydraulic systems clean and running smoothly, even if the fluid is contaminated with water. Protect your equipment and the environment When operating in environmentally sensitive settings, you need to know that your hydraulic fluids are not only able to protect your equipment but also help you to mitigate any impact on local ecosystems. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU is engineered to work in a wide range of settings and has been designed with the environment in mind It is classified according to OECD and EPA water-accommodated fractions test guidelines as “not harmful” to bacteria, algae, freshwater and marine invertebrates, and fish. The fluid is also readily biodegradable (more than 60% broken down after 28 days in the OECD 301 B carbon dioxide evolution test) And contains a mean biobased content of over 80% (ASTM D6866). The low toxicity of Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU, when compared with mineral oils, makes it particularly suited to environmentally sensitive areas where fire hazards are also a concern. These include industrial, marine and mobile applications. Lower operating costs and reducing downtime Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU provides anti-wear and film strength properties necessary for hydraulic systems under moderate to severe conditions. Shell Fire-Resistant S2 DU advanced ashless and zinc-free anti-wear additives protect against operational wear: As proven in Eaton Vickers 35VQ25 vane pump and Komatsu HPV35+35 high-pressure piston pump tests. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU has lower wear compared with the Eaton Vickers V104C pump test limit (ISO 20763) and provides better wear protection than industry standards and mainstream mineral oil hydraulic fluids. Improving Air release - Air in the oil can lead to undesirable consequences such as reduced efficiency and responsiveness and increased likelihood of erosion, cavitation or other harmful system issues that can cause unplanned downtime and increased maintenance costs. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU exceeds equipment manufacturers’ air release limits. Designing fire-resistant hydraulic fluids with reduce wear protection and improve air release helps to extend the life of components and service life of your equipment. It improves the efficiency of your hydraulic systems and keeps them running for longer. Properties Method ISO 46 ISO 68 ISO viscosity grade 46 68 ISO fluid type ISO 6743-4 HEES/HFDU HEES/HFDU Kinematic viscosity at -20°C, cSt ISO 3104 1,522 2,640 Kinematic viscosity at 40°C, cSt ISO 3104 47.2 67.7 Kinematic viscosity at 100°C, cSt ISO 3104 9.41 12.3 Viscosity index ISO 2909 188 183 Density at Kinematic viscosity at 15°C, kg/m³ ISO 12185 921 924 Fire point, °C ASTM D92 372 371 Flash point (Cleveland open cup), °C ISO 2592 320 320 Autoignition temperature, °C ASTM E650 400 - Pour point, °C ISO 3016 -42 -39 Biodegradability (28d), % OECD 301B 76 68 Shell Turbo S5 DR A high-performance phosphate ester (HFDR) self-extinguishing fire-resistant fluid, Shell Turbo S5 DR features a high flash point, high fire point and high auto ignition temperature. It can be used as the hydraulic fluid in electrohydraulic governor controls (EHC) systems in steam and gas turbines. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU As a fully synthetic readily biodegradable¹ formulation (46,68), FM- approved Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU delivers performance that is superior to premium anti-wear mineral oils and offers significant performance and environmental advantages over other fluid options, including other synthetics. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU Reduce the risk of fire with Shell Fire-Resistant S1 DU, formulated by blending natural esters with polyalkylene glycol (PAG). Shell Fire-Resistant S1 DU is readily biodegradable1, FM approved and USDA Bio-preferred certified. Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX 46 A water-glycol (HFC) fire-resistant hydraulic fluid, designed for hydraulic systems that operate at pressures of up to 4,000 psi with a fire-resistant hydraulic fluid that offers high-level protection against corrosion and pump wear. Shell Tellus Improve protection against wear and increase system efficiency with an extensive range of hydraulic fluids designed to maintain productive operations in all conditions. Disclaimers: 1 Shell Fire Resistant S1 DU, S2 DU and S3 DU are biodegradable by greater than 60% after 28 days in the OECD 301B Carbon dioxide evolution test. Deliver peak performance Hydraulic and fluid transmission systems in exposed environments are subject to wide variations in temperature. The naturally high-viscosity index of Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU helps to deliver responsive performance from cold start to full-load heavy-duty operations. Its high viscosity index and shear stability provide consistent viscosity where wide variance in ambient conditions is common. The low temperature performance properties enable responsive performance from cold stat to full load heavily duty operations. A high viscosity index in combination with robust shear stability provides durability at higher operating temperatures. In addition to protecting the machine over a wide temperature operating range, shear-stable, high viscosity index fluids enable increased hydraulic efficiency. Protect your equipment and the environment When operating in environmentally sensitive settings, you need to know that your hydraulic fluids are not only able to protect your equipment but also help you to mitigate any impact on local ecosystems. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU is engineered to work in a wide range of settings and has been designed to help you meet your environmental responsibilities. Designed to be readily biodegradable1 and feature low toxicity, Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU can be used in applications across environmentally sensitive areas. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU is a USDA-Certified Biobased Product in the USDA BioPreferred programme. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU has a high flash point, fire point and autoignition temperature for reduced risk of fire. As an FM Approved Fire-Resistant industrial fluid, Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 is suitable for high-pressure systems where fire hazards are a concern. Lower operating costs and reducing downtime Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU provides anti-wear and film strength properties necessary for hydraulic systems under moderate to severe conditions. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU has lower wear compared with the Eaton Vickers V104C pump test limit (ASTM D 7043) and provides better wear protection than industry standards and mainstream mineral oil hydraulic fluids. Excellent anti-wear protection demonstrated in vane pump tests (ASTM D7043) can help achieve lower maintenance costs and less downtime. Improving Air release - Air in the oil can lead to undesirable consequences such as reduced efficiency and responsiveness and increased likelihood of erosion, cavitation or other harmful system issues that can cause unplanned downtime and increased maintenance costs. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU exceeds equipment manufacturers’ air release limits. Designing fire-resistant hydraulic fluids with reduce wear protection and improved air release helps to extend the life of components and service life of your equipment. It improves the efficiency of your hydraulic systems and keeps them running for longer. Properties Test method ISO 46 ISO 68 ISO viscosity grade 46 68 ISO fluid type ISO 6743-4 HEES/HFDU HEES/HFDU Kinematic viscosity at 20°C, cSt ISO 3104 1,522 2.640 Kinematic viscosity at 40°C, cSt ISO 3104 47.2 67.7 Kinematic viscosity at 100°C, cSt ISO 3104 9.41 12.3 Viscosity index ISO 2909 188 183 Density at Kinematic viscosity at 15°C, kg/m³ ISO 12185 921 924 Fire point, °C ASTM D92 372 371 Flash point (Cleveland open cup), °C ISO 2592 320 320 Autoignition temperature, °C ASTM E650 400 - Pour point, °C ISO 3016 -42 -39 Biodegradability (28d), % OECD 301B 76 68 Shell Turbo S5 DR A high-performance phosphate ester (HFDR) self-extinguishing fire-resistant fluid, Shell Turbo S5 DR features a high flash point, high fire point and high auto ignition temperature. It can be used as the hydraulic fluid in electrohydraulic governor controls (EHC) systems in steam and gas turbines. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU Enhance the protection of industrial equipment in steel mills, mines and foundries with readily biodegradable¹ anhydrous fluid based on synthetic organic esters. Shell Fire-Resistant S2 DU is FM Approved, USDA Bio-preferred certified and MSHA (68) approved. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU As a fully synthetic readily biodegradable¹ formulation (46,68), FM- approved Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU delivers performance that is superior to premium anti-wear mineral oils and offers significant performance and environmental advantages over other fluid options, including other synthetics. Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX 46 A water-glycol (HFC) fire-resistant hydraulic fluid, designed for hydraulic systems that operate at pressures of up to 4,000 psi with a fire-resistant hydraulic fluid that offers high-level protection against corrosion and pump wear. Shell Tellus Improve protection against wear and increase system efficiency with an extensive range of hydraulic fluids designed to maintain productive operations in all conditions. Disclaimers: 1 Shell Fire Resistant S1 DU, S2 DU and S3 DU are biodegradable by greater than 60% after 28 days in the OECD 301B Carbon dioxide evolution test. Deliver peak performance Using fire-resistant lubricants is a cost-effective option compared with installing mechanical fire-suppression equipment. With a 42–44% water content, Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX is an HFC type, fire-resistant hydraulic fluid designed for use in industrial equipment operating in areas subject to fire hazards, including in the steel, aluminium, die-casting, mining, glass and tunnel boring industries. It has a higher ignition temperature and lower flammability than mineral oils, and its glycol (diethylene glycol) content enables the fluid to be used in all seasons. The fluid uses an innovative friction modifier to provide excellent pump lubricity, which can help to extend equipment service life and reduce maintenance costs. In the Vickers V-104 vane pump test, only 10–15 mg of wear was recorded after 100 hours at 2,000 psi and 65°C (ASTM D7043). As an FM Approved Fire-Resistant industrial fluid, Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX Featuring a high level of anti-wear protection, Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX is engineered to offer increased resistance to mechanical shear and has a stable viscosity that helps to protect components against wear. Provides corrosion protection to a wide variety of metals, including aluminium, copper, brass, cast iron, steel and others commonly used in hydraulic systems. Water based hydraulic systems have been traditionally used in underground mining applications and in the high temperature areas of steel mills and foundries Protect your equipment and the environment As the name implies, water-glycol fluids consist of a solution of water, ethylene or diethylene glycol, a thickener and an additive package. The additive system contains anti-wear protection, as well as corrosion resistance, metal passivation, oxidation resistance, antimicrobial properties, seal in hose compatibility, and a pink or red dye to aid in identification. The development of water-glycol hydraulic fluids has been driven by a multitude of changes impacting industry. For example, environmental concerns have pushed the industry to look for fluids that are biodegradable1, less harmful to the environment and more easily cleaned up. Lower clean-up costs: Water-based hydraulic systems hold the potential for tremendous cost savings at the plant level due to lower associated clean-up costs. Safety: The inherent fire resistance of the fluid increases safety. Wear protection: The incorporated additive packages reduce wear and tear on equipment, helping to maximise the life of equipment. Lower operating costs and reducing downtime Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX helps to minimise fluid maintenance, extend pump life and reduce reconditioning requirements. It does this through its high shear stability, along with its superior vapour phase and solution corrosion protection, compared with traditional water-glycol fluids. The fluid uses an innovative friction modifier to provide excellent pump lubricity, which can help to extend equipment service life and reduce maintenance costs. In the Vickers V-104 vane pump test, only 10–15 mg of wear was recorded after 100 hours at 2,000 psi and 65ºC (ASTM D7043). Lower clean-up costs: Water-based hydraulic systems hold the potential for tremendous cost savings at the plant level due to lower associated clean-up costs. Rust and corrosion protection: Water-glycol fluid formulations incorporate additives that reduce rust and corrosion in systems, further helping to extend service life of both the equipment and fluid itself. Predictable service life: Water-glycol fluid formulations can be tested and monitored to measure fluid life, giving operators insight as to when replacement may be needed. Excellent fire-resistance coupled with good cost and performance makes water-glycol fluids a good choice for many industrial applications. Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX specifications Method Shell Water-Glycol S2 CX 46 ISO fluid type ISO 67 43-4 HFC Colour Visual Red Kinematic viscosity at 40°C, mm 2/5 ISO 3104 46 Viscosity index ISO 2909 196 Density at 15°C, kg/m³ ISO 12195 1080 pH 9.5 Water content, % ASTM E203 42 – 44 Pour point ISO 3016 -50 Four-ball wear test, mm ISO 20623 0.60 These characteristics are typical of current production. Although future production will conform to Shell’s specifications, variations in these characteristics may occur. Shell Turbo S5 DR A high-performance phosphate ester (HFDR) self-extinguishing fire-resistant fluid, Shell Turbo S5 DR features a high flash point, high fire point and high auto ignition temperature. It can be used as the hydraulic fluid in electrohydraulic governor controls (EHC) systems in steam and gas turbines. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU As a fully synthetic readily biodegradable¹ formulation (46,68), FM- approved Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S3 DU delivers performance that is superior to premium anti-wear mineral oils and offers significant performance and environmental advantages over other fluid options, including other synthetics. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S2 DU Enhance the protection of industrial equipment in steel mills, mines and foundries with readily biodegradable¹ anhydrous fluid based on synthetic organic esters. Shell Fire-Resistant S2 DU is FM Approved, USDA Bio-preferred certified and MSHA (68) approved. Shell Fire-Resistant Hydraulic Fluid S1 DU Reduce the risk of fire with Shell Fire-Resistant S1 DU, formulated by blending natural esters with polyalkylene glycol (PAG). Shell Fire-Resistant S1 DU is readily biodegradable1, FM approved and USDA Bio-preferred certified. Shell Tellus Improve protection against wear and increase system efficiency with an extensive range of hydraulic fluids designed to maintain productive operations in all conditions. Disclaimers: 1 Shell Fire Resistant S1 DU, S2 DU and S3 DU are biodegradable by greater than 60% after 28 days in the OECD 301B Carbon dioxide evolution test. Contributing to a more sustainable future Shell are very pleased to announce that PANOLIN’s Biodegradable lubricants will now form part of Shell’s high-quality lubricant range. For application across hydraulics, gears, universal tractor transmission oils, biodegradable engine oils (HDEO), turbine oils, chainsaw oils and greases for machine lubrication, including leading OEM-approved products. Biodegradable lubricants help to contribute to a more sustainable future, offering greater protection for wildlife and ecosystems in the event that they come into contact with the environment, in comparison to conventional lubricants. This enables our customers to reduce the risks of operating in sensitive environments. Going forward Shell will be responsible for manufacturing, distributing and marketing the PANOLIN portfolio of Biodegradable lubricants products alongside our established Shell Naturelle range. This partnership will play a significant role in Shell’s concerted effort to strengthen our presence in the mining, construction, agriculture, renewable power, hydropower and offshore wind sectors. We expect to fully integrate PANOLIN into our global lubricants business within two years after completion as part of Shell’s Powering Progress strategy to accelerate the transition to a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. Machteld de Haan, Global Executive Vice President of Shell Lubricants, said: “We are entering into this strategic acquisition to grow our presence in the global industrial lubricants market, through differentiated, value-added propositions for our customers. Once completed, the acquisition will enable us to complement our existing range of sustainable products in response to increasing customer demand.” Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Lubricants Product StewardshipProducers, suppliers and customers are jointly responsible for making sure products are safe for people and the environment - a process known as product stewardship. Shell Lubricants go further to meet voluntary industry commitments such as the ICCA Global Product Strategy. Product Stewardship summaries provide general information about our Lubricant Base Oils but are not intended to provide in-depth health and safety information. Product Stewardship Summaries Product Stewardship Summary Distillates (petroleum), hydrotreated heavy naphthenic Download Distillates (petroleum), hydrotreated heavy naphthenic Stewardship Summary Distillates (petroleum), hydrotreated light naphthenic Download Distillates (petroleum), hydrotreated light naphthenic Stewardship Summary Distillates (petroleum), hydrotreated heavy paraffinic Download Distillates (petroleum), hydrotreated heavy paraffinic Stewardship Summary Distillates (petroleum), hydrotreated light paraffinic Download Distillates (petroleum), hydrotreated light paraffinic Stewardship Summary Distillates (petroleum), solvent-dewaxed heavy paraffinic Download Distillates (petroleum), solvent-dewaxed heavy paraffinic Stewardship Summary Distillates (petroleum), solvent-dewaxed light paraffinic Download Distillates (petroleum), solvent-dewaxed light paraffinic Stewardship Summary Extracts (petroleum), residual oil solvent Download Extracts (petroleum), residual oil solvent Stewardship Summary Foots oil (petroleum) Download Foots oil (petroleum) Stewardship Summary Gas oils (petroleum), hydrodesulfurized Download Gas oils (petroleum), hydrodesulfurized Stewardship Summary GTL Base oils Download GTL Base oils Stewardship Summary GTL Hydrocarbon wax Download GTL Hydrocarbon wax Stewardship Summary Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum), hydrotreated microcrystalline Download Hydrocarbon waxes (petroleum), hydrotreated microcrystalline Stewardship Summary Slack wax Download Slack wax Stewardship Summary White mineral oil (petroleum) Download White mineral oil (petroleum) Stewardship Summary Find out more about Shell’s approach to product stewardship Distributor Locator Where to buy Shell oils and lubricants. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products at www.epc.shell.com. Contact our Lubricants Solutions ExpertsGet in touch to hear more about our services, products and the possibilities of working together. Get in touch to hear more about our services, products and the possibilities of working together. Lubricants Product Range Discover how using the right lubricant can bring you substantial savings by helping maximise equipment efficiency, prolong vehicle life and reduce downtime. Data sheets Find key technical and safety information on our products. Reaching Full Power with Biodegradables Innovation in biodegradable lubricants is translating to high-performing products suitable for use in environmentally sensitive areas. The Potential of Post-Consumer Waste Many industrial companies recycle their materials but do not see the benefit of where they go. Regenerated oil is one result. Learn more. Five Things to Know about Lubricants Sustainability What could you save by improving the efficiency and reliability of your lubricants? Sustainability FAQs Answering some of the frequently asked questions about lubricants and sustainability. Shell Lubricant Solutions homepage Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. Frequently asked Sustainability questions Q. What is the difference between energy efficiency and CO2 reduction? A. Energy efficiency relates to being able to produce more of something while not burning any extra fuel and, therefore, not producing any more CO2. CO2 reduction means physically reducing the amount of CO2 you produce. This can be done through methods such as carbon capture and storage, the name given to a combination of technologies that captures and stores carbon dioxide deep underground, preventing its release into the atmosphere. Q. How can waste management partnerships and programmes support my business? A. Waste management partnerships can help lift your business over both an economic and regulatory hurdle as you can ensure waste is being disposed of correctly and effectively without having to drain your own resources in the process. Q. Is the performance of base oils made from recycled or post-consumer sources equal to the non-recycled oils I use now? A. The performance of many base oils made from recycled or post-consumer sources can actually be equivalent to or better than the oils you use now. Products created with sustainability in mind from the start also work towards reducing your carbon footprint and those that have been regenerated from biodegradable sources are ideal in environmentally sensitive areas. Q. What are nature-based solutions (NBS)? A. Nature-based solutions are projects which protect, transform or restore land. In this way, nature absorbs more CO2 emissions from the atmosphere. Such activities can lead to the marketing, trading and sale of carbon credits. Q. What is ‘increased part density’ and how is it used to reduce packaging waste? A. Increased part density sees firms optimise space utilisation by shipping more parts in the same amount of space. Greater part density translates into the need for fewer containers, fewer shipments, and ultimately, transport cost reduction. Q. What are biodegradable oils made from? A. Many biodegradable lubricants are made from natural vegetable oils such as rapeseed or sunflower seed oils. However, we are now also seeing a new wave of highly effective biodegradable lubricants made from esters, an organic compound produced by the reaction between an acid and an alcohol. Q. What sustainability commitments has Shell made? A. Shell has set itself an ambition to become a ‘net-zero emissions energy business’ by 2050 or sooner, if possible. We aim to do this in step with society’s progress towards the goals of the Paris Agreement. You can find out more about Shell’s ambition here: https://www.shell.com/energy-and-innovation/the-energy-future/shells-ambition-to-be-a-net-zero-emissions-energy-business.html Q. Where can I find more resources covering Shell’s sustainability services? A. You can find out more about Shell Lubricant Solutions' sustainability offerings here: https://www.shell.com/sustainability.html Sustainability and Lubricants Securing a sustainable future for your business. Explore Sustainability at Shell Does sustainability always mean a compromise for your bottom line? How can companies balance business performance and emissions reduction? Products and Services to Support Business Sustainability Discover more about the Shell Lubricant Solutions products and services designed to help organisations embed sustainability into business strategy. Five Things to Know about Lubricants Sustainability What could you save by improving the efficiency and reliability of your lubricants? What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. Industrial Lubricant Sustainability key points 1. Advancements in lubricants have the potential to reduce emissions and save on fleet costs1 Research has found that the fuel savings from improving and using effective engine lubricants equate to average savings per vehicle of between €37–€67 per year for cars and €720–€1282 per year for heavy trucks. 2. Biodegradable oils are generally less flammable and less harmful to plants or animals Biodegradable lubricants such as synthetic or vegetable oils are much more considerate to the environment, and are less toxic to plants and animals. A greater number of biodegradable lubricants for different specifications such as hydraulic fluids are being developed with greater biodegradability and less toxicity that can operate in more environmentally sensitive areas.2 3. Without proper disposal procedures in place, 50% of all lubricants used worldwide end up in the environment3 The main cause of lubricant loss is accidental release or spills, which results in toxic oils contaminating forests, fields and waterways with limited detection.4 Biodegradable lubricants mean that any lubricant released into the environment can be broken down easily in soil and water. 4. Biodegradable lubricants can help businesses meet consumer sustainability expectations and environmental regulations Consumers are increasingly looking for businesses to take responsibility for environmental issues such as climate change. Using biodegradable products within production allows consumers to be at ease when buying a product, knowing that waste from these products are biodegradable and not harming the planet. Environmental regulations are also in place that hold businesses accountable for environmental damage to natural habitats, protected species, land or water.5 5. The production of biodegradable plastics often requires half as much energy than non-degradable plastics Bioplastics are made from natural substances such as corn starch meaning they can save energy in the manufacturing process. The manufacturing of natural polymers requires 65% less energy compared to a similar polymer made from petroleum.6 1 https://atiel.org/images/downloads/pdfs/Ricardo-Lubricants_contribution_to_fuel_economy_final.pdf 2 http://irep.ntu.ac.uk/id/eprint/18206/1/196132_169 Morledge Pre Publisher.pdf 3 Mbohwa, C., Madanhire, I. (2016). Mitigating Environmental Impact of Petroleum Lubricants 4 https://pureadvantage.org/news/2017/05/23/biodegradable-lubricants/ 5 https://ec.europa.eu/environment/legal/liability/pdf/eld_guidance/ireland.pdf 6 https://www.conserve-energy-future.com/advantages-disadvantages-uses-biodegradable-plastics.php Sustainability and Lubricants Securing a sustainable future for your business. Explore Sustainability at Shell Does sustainability always mean a compromise for your bottom line? How can companies balance business performance and emissions reduction? Products and Services to Support Business Sustainability Discover more about the Shell Lubricant Solutions products and services designed to help organisations embed sustainability into business strategy. Sustainability FAQs Answering some of the frequently asked questions about lubricants and sustainability. What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. Recycling in industry lubricants Once a material or finished product has served its intended use and has been diverted or recovered from waste destined for disposal, it is then considered ‘post-consumer’. Many industrial companies recycle their materials but do not see the benefit of where they go. Regenerated oil is one example of waste that can be recycled from an industrial setting and utilised in other places. The potential for recycled oil Oil recycling makes environmental and economic sense. The manufacture of lubricating oil is the most energy-intensive process in a crude oil refinery, and used lubricating oils are often burned in industrial or commercial boilers, releasing multiple pollutants including carbon dioxide. However, new technology means that the base oil of a lubricant – the part of the lubricant that does not break down during use – can be re-refined to remove water, contaminants and additives. Regenerated oil and re-refined oil are two different things; Re-refined oil is oil that can be re-used as a virgin base oil to create lubricants. Regenerated oil, however, can be taken untreated and reused for other purposes. Regenerated oil can be turned into a number of things: Industrial burner oil (where the used oil is dewatered, filtered and demineralised for use in industrial burners) Mould oil to help release products from their moulds (e.g. pressed metal products, concrete) Hydraulic oil Bitumen based products An additive in manufactured products Incorporated into other products or refined back into new lubricating oil Recycling to support business Steel and aluminium stand out as industries that have successfully developed their manufacturing processes to incorporate large quantities of post-consumer recycled materials. Aluminium cans can contain a high percentage of recycled content, while many products made with steel contain at least a quarter reclaimed and recycled steel. The value of steel and aluminium to industry consistently guarantees that they are worthwhile components of curb side recycling programs. Other companies, including Shell, are utilising plastic waste by turning it back into the chemicals it is made up from. In fact, Shell’s own ambition is to use one million tons of plastic waste in our chemicals plants by 2025.1 The technique, known as pyrolysis, is considered a breakthrough for hard-to-recycle plastics and several companies are hoping to scale this solution to industrial and profitable quantities. 1 http://www.shell.com/plasticwaste Does sustainability always mean a compromise for your bottom line? How can companies balance business performance and emissions reduction? Products and Services to Support Business Sustainability Discover more about the Shell Lubricant Solutions products and services designed to help organisations embed sustainability into business strategy. Five Things to Know about Lubricants Sustainability What could you save by improving the efficiency and reliability of your lubricants? Sustainability FAQs Answering some of the frequently asked questions about lubricants and sustainability. What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. The value of biodegradable lubricants Biodegradable lubricants have the molecular ability to be degraded biologically (i.e. by the action of biological organisms). Significant innovations have occurred in the biodegradables space translating to products suitable for use in environmentally sensitive areas that perform well in industrial settings. The evolution of lubricants Biodegradable lubricants are either synthetic (man-made) or derive from vegetable oils, and degrade significantly faster than mineral oils such as petroleum, reducing rapidly to components that are more readily broken down by natural micro-organisms. The selection of base fluid is critical for a lubricant or grease’s ability to biodegrade. In general, mineral oils tend to be less biodegradable than esters.1 However, not all esters perform equally, with ester type and branching causing significant variations in biodegradability. How do biodegradable lubricants stack up? Biodegradable lubricants made from natural vegetable oils, such as rapeseed or sunflower seed, have come on a long way in the last two to three years. Some challenges do remain, and biodegradable lubricants still need to be monitored in use as their service life can vary compared to mineral oils, depending on the type and application. However, more innovation in this space could mean synthetic ester-based lubricants can provide extended service life compared to mineral oils, which may go a long way to offset their initial cost.2 Industry applications for biodegradables In industry, biodegradable lubricants are evolving to the point where they can be used in almost every system that a conventional lubricant is traditionally found. At present, biodegradables are particularly relevant in the following applications: Total Loss systems (chainsaw lubricants, corrosion preventatives, mould release oils) Hydraulics for excavators working in environmentally sensitive sites Water pumps and grease applications where release into the environment is unavoidable More recently, the introduction of smaller, faster and more efficient equipment operating at higher speeds, temperatures, stresses and pressures, accelerated the trend towards ever greater performance and even better compatibility, which favours higher quality synthetic (biodegradable) lubricants. 1 Battasby, N. S., Chemosphere, 2000, Vol 42, 1011–1027 2 oilcare.org.uk/avoid-pollution/biodegradable-lubricants/ Does sustainability always mean a compromise for your bottom line? How can companies balance business performance and emissions reduction? Products and Services to Support Business Sustainability Discover more about the Shell Lubricant Solutions products and services designed to help organisations embed sustainability into business strategy. Five Things to Know about Lubricants Sustainability What could you save by improving the efficiency and reliability of your lubricants? Sustainability FAQs Answering some of the frequently asked questions about lubricants and sustainability. What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. Looking at ways to reduce carbon emissions In several markets around the world, governments, investors and consumers are pushing industry to act to address climate change, reduce its carbon emissions and become more energy and resource efficient. While the appetite to reduce emissions is there, many businesses do not have the resources required to implement sweeping changes to their operations. However, there are several ways to increase the efficiency of operations and reduce carbon output that have a positive impact on business performance. Lubricants Lubricants that increase the fuel efficiency of machines can lower the carbon footprint of those industries where intensive machinery use is required. Growing demand for lower emissions and cost reductions has seen the development of more advanced engine and machinery system designs. These high-efficiency machines need similarly effective lubricants, that can deliver high thermal and pressure stability, to ensure performance under testing conditions. Smart factories Within a ‘smart factory’, technological advances allow for remote monitoring, maintenance and servicing as well as communication between different machines enabling businesses to make data-driven decisions. Rapid advancement in internet capability is enabling a wider implementation of the Internet of Things (IoT) technology in industry, to help businesses run their operations in a smarter, more sustainable way. Big data The substantial amount of data available to industry today provides the opportunity to analyse the outputs of machinery and industrial processes, focusing on specific ways to optimise the operations of industrial firms. For example, having machinery data fed to an operations manager in real-time allows that manager to minimise idle time and to predict – and prevent – instances where equipment may run less sustainably. Machine learning and artificial intelligence Machine learning and artificial intelligence can help collect and then process these vast amounts of operational data mentioned above, adapting recommendations in real-time to help improve equipment performance. Nature-based Solutions Direct CO2 reduction often comes in the form of offsetting through the purchase of carbon credits. These credits can be traded or purchased from projects that help to absorb CO2 from the atmosphere, known as nature-based solutions. Does sustainability always mean a compromise for your bottom line? How can companies balance business performance and emissions reduction? Products and Services to Support Business Sustainability Discover more about the Shell Lubricant Solutions products and services designed to help organisations embed sustainability into business strategy. Five Things to Know about Lubricants Sustainability What could you save by improving the efficiency and reliability of your lubricants? Sustainability FAQs Answering some of the frequently asked questions about lubricants and sustainability. What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. The waste challenge Waste is both an operational and economic reality for industry. Waste management requires careful planning, investment, and a constant awareness of current and upcoming legislation. It is therefore unsurprising that cradle-to-grave waste management is one of the most sought-after sustainability offerings for businesses. Packaging waste Companies employ a variety of methods to reduce packaging waste, such as redesigning existing packaging and ensuring new designs are environmentally friendly. ‘Lightweighting’ is one widely used strategy. This involves reducing the size and weight of packaging to lessen the weight of a transport shipment, thus lowering its carbon footprint. Research has found that a 10% reduction in packaging weight will result in a transportation fuel reduction ranging from 2% to 8.4% 1. Increased part density is another approach. This is the process of optimising space utilisation by shipping more parts in the same amount of space. The automotive industry is a leader in designing packaging to increase part density in containers. Greater part density translates into the need for fewer containers, fewer shipments and, ultimately, transport cost reduction. Understanding life cycle thinking ‘Life cycle thinking’ considers the environmental impact a product will have throughout its lifetime. By considering the end-to-end life cycle of a product, businesses aim to reduce its overall environmental impact. However, this can involve certain trade-offs, lessening impact at different stages. For example, in order to produce a product that is recyclable at the end of its life, a more energy intensive manufacturing process might have been required to create it. Meeting regulatory requirements Around the globe, governing bodies are writing waste management requirements into law. Waste oil is a particularly difficult area for industry. Different types of oils have their own disposal specification and many businesses lack knowledge of how to deal with multiple oils effectively. Bridging this gap is critical, as improperly disposing waste oil can create contamination and cause damage to the surface of ground soil2. 1 Shaw, R., 2020. Lightweight Packaging: Benefits For Producers And Consumers. [online] Assemblies Unlimited, Inc. Available at: https://www.assemblies.com/lightweight-packaging-benefits/ 2 www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6720566/ Does sustainability always mean a compromise for your bottom line? How can companies balance business performance and emissions reduction? Products and Services to Support Business Sustainability Discover more about the Shell Lubricant Solutions products and services designed to help organisations embed sustainability into business strategy. Five Things to Know about Lubricants Sustainability What could you save by improving the efficiency and reliability of your lubricants? Sustainability FAQs Answering some of the frequently asked questions about lubricants and sustainability. What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. Sustainability and your business challenges How can companies balance the immediate obligation to the balance sheet, with the responsibility to reduce operational carbon emissions? It’s a universal tension that a recent study of global CEOs put into sharp focus. While 99% believe sustainability will be important to future success, 55% admit pressure to operate with extreme cost-consciousness against investing in longer-term strategy is a trade-off 1. While putting planet and profit in the same sentence can feel jarring, the two need not be mutually exclusive. In fact, consumers (73%) believe a company can take actions that both increase profits and improve conditions in the communities in which it operates 2. But where and how to begin? From regulations to customer demands, and employee activism to industry targets, the pressure to find time, expertise and budget to implement sustainable operations can be overwhelming. Tapping into partners with expertise can help unlock a route map. There are four key areas business leaders should be looking to prioritise as part of their sustainability efforts: Biodegradables Understanding that lubricants are biodegradable gives industry leaders peace of mind that the materials they’re using are less hazardous for the environment and their employees. Innovation in biodegradable lubricants is translating to high-performing products suitable for use in environmentally sensitive areas. Post-consumer products Products that have already been used in the market and repurposed for industry needs are a compelling selling point for sustainability. Unlock the potential of utilising post-consumer waste from your industrial processes. CO2 reduction Reducing carbon footprint has become a top priority for industry. Increasing the efficiency of operations not only cuts emissions, it has a positive impact on performance as well. Waste management An effective waste management strategy can lift businesses over both an operational and economic hurdle. The case for waste management is also becoming stronger as stricter regulation is introduced around the world. These all hold potential to reduce environmental impact in industrial settings, while at the same time increasing operational efficiency and protecting bottom lines. To find out more about reducing environmental impact, explore the sections below. 1 The United Nations Global Compact — Accenture Strategy CEO Study on Sustainability, 2019 2 Edelman Trust Barometer, 2020 Achieving Sustainability Without Sacrificing Business Performance For a more in-depth exploration of the shared challenges facing our partners and customers and how, by tackling them with sustainability in mind, businesses can protect the bottom line, download this free white paper. Download this free white paper The Potential of Post-Consumer Waste Many industrial companies recycle their materials but do not see the benefit of where they go. Regenerated oil is one result. Learn more. Working with CO₂ There are a number of ways to increase operational efficiency and reduce carbon output, read on to find out more. Managing Waste Effectively Three ways in which companies can upgrade their waste management. What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. Shell Lubricant Solutions products and services Satisfying commercial or societal obligations is no longer a binary choice. Neither can be achieved without the other. Shell Lubricant Solutions offers a range of products and services designed to help organisations embed sustainability into business strategy. A major focus of Shell Lubricant Solutions innovation in recent years has been developing oils and greases designed to help industry and transport operators improve energy and fuel efficiency. Consultative services can also support your business in reducing energy usage and cutting the related emissions. Sustainable Business Solutions Shell Lubricant Solutions provides a range of solutions to help our customers achieve operational excellence and reduce environmental impact. Find out more. Powering-up Renewables We are working to ensure wind power is as competitive as possible so that its contribution to the energy mix can increase. Learn more about our portfolio of oils, greases and services designed to help maximise wind turbine performance. Hydraulic Oils Advanced hydraulic oils using gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology can help upgrade energy efficiency of construction, manufacturing, or mining operations. Heavy duty engine oils Extensive field trials have demonstrated the fuel economy and long oil-drain intervals of Shell Rimula. Services to support your sustainability goals As businesses set sustainability goals, we can support. Our consultative services can help your business reduce energy usage and cut the related emissions. What Sustainability Means at Shell Learn more about what sustainability at Shell means – providing more and cleaner energy solutions for people in a responsible way. Nature-Based Solutions Explore how Shell is investing in nature as part of its ambition to become a net-zero energy business. Delivering Carbon Neutral¹ Solutions to Our Customers Shell has a target to become a net-zero carbon emissions energy business by 2050 or sooner, in step with society. As the biggest supplier of lubricants in the world, Shell Lubricants has a large part to play in delivering this.2 Shell provides approximately five billion litres of finished lubricants annually to customers across the world. From aviation to power generation, marine to mining, both consumer and commercial automotive, these lubricants help to keep the world moving by ensuring machinery can operate consistently and efficiently at the peak of its performance. But behind this performance, there is an ongoing need to balance increased operational output with reduced environmental impact. And as demands evolve, expectations change too. Customers and consumers alike now expect brands to offer sustainable solutions that make it easier for them to make sustainable choices. Carbon Neutral1 Lubricants by Shell We know our customers are increasingly in need of sustainable solutions. So, to meet this growing industry demand, Shell is exploring a range of initiatives that seek to avoid, reduce and offset emissions while helping consumers and customers to find solutions that benefit both their operational and sustainability goals. The latest step in this journey is the launch of our extended range of carbon neutral lubricants1. As well as helping to avoid or reduce emissions through material choices and operational efficiencies, these products are now carbon neutral thanks to Shell’s global portfolio of nature-based carbon credits. They span a number of sectors, including: Premium passenger car motor oil Heavy duty diesel engine oil Industrial portfolios The initiative is the largest and most significant carbon neutral programme in the lubricants industry today, aiming to offset the CO2e3 emissions of more than 200 million litres of high-quality lubricants.4 We plan to deliver 700,000 tonnes of CO2e offset annually, covering all stages of the life cycle of the key lubricants brands in our portfolio and this represents a key milestone in our ongoing commitment to deliver on two key, strategic initiatives: 1. Reducing the CO2e intensity of our products This is achieved through: Avoiding emissions, by: Embedding circular economy thinking at the heart of our business Shell will use more recycled content in our plastic bottles. In Europe, we are working on plans to technically prove the use of recycled resin in our bottles, and in the US we are testing higher loads, which we plan to be above the existing 25% recycled resin content required by current legislation. We are also moving some of our larger plastic packaging, for example pails, to contain recycled resin. Designing products with reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) and less packaging We are exploring different packaging concepts that are more sustainable (i.e. different materials or different supply chain models). For example, Ecobox, used in the US and China is an alternative to traditional plastic packaging for motor oil for light-duty vehicles, which can reduce plastic usage in the packaging by more than 80% and CO2e emissions by more than 60%5. Reducing emissions, by: Improving the energy efficiency of our facilities We have reduced our carbon intensity in our operations by over 30% since 20166. Energy monitoring systems (EMS) and LED lighting have been installed at all our facilities which allow us to improve the energy efficiency of our sites. For example, the EMS pilot at the Tianjin plant helped to achieve an 8.5% reduction in electricity use between 2017 to 2018. Increasing our use of renewable energy Over 50% of electricity used in our Shell Lubricant Blending Plants now comes from renewable sources, including renewable electricity contracts and we plan to increase this amount through expansion of solar installations in the rest of our Shell facilities. Combined, these panels generate more than 7,500 MWh of electricity annually, and can result in the avoidance of GHG emissions of approximately 4,500 tonnes on a CO2e basis per year. Reducing the CO2e emissions of our supply chain Shell has implemented LNG trucks for some routes, which have a lower CO2e impact than traditional trucks, while optimised networks help reduce road transport by over a million miles and low viscosity synthetic lubricants reduce fuel consumption. Offsetting emissions, by Compensating for CO2e emissions from the life cycle of our products. Life cycle of lubricants covers: the raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution, usage and end-of-life. Using globally diverse, externally verified, and high-quality, nature-based carbon credits. Each carbon credit represents the avoidance or removal of GHG equivalent to one tonne of CO2e. Protecting and restoring natural ecosystems. Shell Lubricants support internationally accredited, carbon offsetting projects such as the Katingan Mentaya project in Indonesia or the Qinghai Afforestation Project in China. They naturally remove CO2 from the atmosphere every year while also improving biodiversity, protecting endangered species and supporting local communities. 2. Helping customers to manage their sustainability needs This is achieved through providing high-quality products and leading-edge technology that can: Reduce friction, wear and tear Extend the life of engines and machinery Increase fuel economy, oil-drain interval and energy efficiency Reduce the amount of resources required, waste produced, and emissions emitted. Low viscosity lubricants can increase fuel economy by up to 3%7 and increase energy efficiency in industrial applications by up to 4%8, while many of our industrial lubricants deliver significant ODI benefits such as reduced maintenance needs and fewer parts replacement. For example, Shell Mysella S7 N, our latest generation natural gas engine oil, more than doubles the previous industry typical oil drain for gas engine oils. As we all move towards a lower-carbon future, combining these two aims will help to provide customers across the globe with more and cleaner energy solutions. And this is sustainability without compromise, as Shell Lubricants is dedicated to enabling customers to retain the best in operational performance while contributing to lower emissions, less waste and fewer natural resource usage. 1 CO2 compensation is not a substitute for switching to lower emission energy solutions or reducing the use of fossil fuels. Carbon credits are purchased and retired to compensate the calculated lifecycle CO2e emissions of the product. Although these carbon credits have been generated in accordance with international carbon standards, the compensation may not be exact. 2 Kline & Co [https://www.shell.com/business-customers/lubricants-for-business/news-and-media-releases/2019/shell-retains-leadership-of-global-lubricants-market-for-thirteen-consecutive-year.html] 3 CO2e (CO2 equivalent) refers to CO2, CH4, N2O. 4 The CO2e lifecycle emissions of this product have been offset with verified Nature-Based Carbon Credits. 5 over 80% plastic reduction in box liner vs. 5 individual 4L Shell Helix bottles. 6 Own operations involved in manufacturing of lubricants and based on Shell Internal Reporting. 7 Based on ACEA M111 fuel economy results compared with the industry reference oil 8 Shell Tellus S4 VE can help save up to 4.4% of the energy per hour in a plastic injection moulding machine (Shell and third-party field trial) LEGAL DISCLAIMERS: SHELL LUBRICANTS CARBON NEUTRAL FULL LEGAL DISCLOSURE INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE To support our carbon neutral9 product offerings, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA), an independent, accredited Verification Body, provided external assurance on the associated processes and underlying product level carbon footprint calculations. This includes the following: Processes for calculation of the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions in carbon dioxide equivalents associated with a product (documentation here) In addition, LRQA independently assured Shell Lubricants’ product level carbon footprint calculations, used for quantification of carbon intensity in kg CO2 equivalent per liter of product, against the following standards: International standard of ISO 14067:2018 Greenhouse gases - Carbon footprint of products - Requirements and guidelines for quantification Publicly available specification of PAS2050:2011 Specification for the assessment of the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of goods and services. LRQA implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements for ISO 14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021 Conformity assessment – Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems that are at least as demanding as the requirements of the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. The associated documentation (assurance statement) has been reproduced in full and can be found here. 9 Carbon neutral: CO2 compensation is not a substitute for switching to lower emission energy solutions or reducing the use of fossil fuels. Carbon credits are purchased and retired to compensate the calculated lifecycle CO2e emissions of the product. Although these carbon credits have been generated in accordance with international carbon standards, the compensation may not be exact. CO2e CONVERSION ANALOGY DISCLAIMER: These analogies are for illustrative purposes only. Shell does not make any representation or warranty, whether express or implied, regarding the accuracy, completeness, reliability or relevance of the analogies, and is not liable in any way for any loss, damages or expenses arising out of, or in connection with the calculation of the analogies, or with the use of or claims made regarding such analogies. Actual emissions from driving are sensitive to parameters that vary in each individual application, for which assumptions are required here: size or type of car; number of passengers; and city vs. highway driving, among others. As such, these numbers should not be taken as representative of any specific case or activity. Driving analogies are based on direct CO2, CH4 and N2O emissions from the vehicles and do not include emissions from fuel production and distribution (life cycle emissions). Fuel emissions factors are from UK DEFRA (2019), driving distances are from Google Maps (2020), and US and EU driver distances are from US DOT (2018) and EU ODYSSEE-MURE (2017). OTHER DISCLAIMERS: This document contains data and analysis from Shell’s Sky scenario. Shell’s scenarios are not intended to be projections or forecasts of the future. Shell’s scenarios, including the scenarios contained in this report, are not Shell’s strategy or business plan. When developing Shell’s strategy, our scenarios are one of many variables that we consider. Ultimately, whether society meets its goals to decarbonise is not within Shell’s control. While we intend to travel this journey in step with society, only governments can create the framework for success. The Sky 1.5 scenario starts with data from Shell’s Sky scenario, but there are important updates. First, the outlook uses the most recent modelling for the impact and recovery from COVID-19 consistent with a Sky 1.5 scenario narrative. Second, it blends this projection into existing Sky (2018) energy system data by around 2030. Third, the extensive scale-up of nature-based solutions is brought into the core scenario, which benefits from extensive new modelling of that scale-up. (In 2018, nature-based solutions required to achieve 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels by the end of this century were analysed as a sensitivity to Sky. This analysis was also reviewed and included in the IPCC Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C (SR15).) Fourth, our new oil and natural gas supply modelling, with an outlook consistent with the Sky 1.5 narrative and demand, is presented for the first time. Fifth, the Sky 1.5 scenario draws on the latest historical data and estimates to 2020 from various sources, particularly the extensive International Energy Agency energy statistics. As with Sky, this scenario assumes that society achieves the 1.5°C stretch goal of the Paris Agreement. It is rooted in stretching but realistic development dynamics today but explores a goal-oriented way to achieve that ambition. We worked back in designing how this could occur, considering the realities of the situation today and taking into account realistic timescales for change. Of course, there is a range of possible paths in detail that society could take to achieve this goal. Although achieving the goal of the Paris Agreement and the future depicted in Sky 1.5 while maintaining a growing global economy will be extremely challenging, today it is still a technically possible path. However, we believe the window for success is quickly closing. FULL CAUTIONARY NOTE Additionally, it is important to note that as of 23rd February 2021, Shell’s operating plans and budgets do not reflect Shell’s Net-Zero Emissions ambition. Shell’s aim is that, in the future, its operating plans and budgets will change to reflect this movement towards its new Net-Zero Emissions ambition. However, these plans and budgets need to be in step with the movement towards a Net-Zero Emissions economy within society and among Shell’s customers. Also, in this document we may refer to Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint”, which includes Shell’s carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production and our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the term Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” is for convenience only and not intended to suggest these emissions are those of Shell or its subsidiares. Shell lubricants carbon neutral long-form disclaimer CO2 compensation does not imply that there is no environmental impact from the production and use of the product as associated emissions remain in the atmosphere. CO2 compensation is not a substitute for switching to lower emission energy solutions or reducing the use of fossil fuels. Shell businesses focus first on emissions that can be avoided or reduced and only then, compensate the remaining emissions. “Carbon neutral” or “CO2 compensated” indicates that Shell will engage in a transaction where an amount of CO2 equivalent to the value of the remaining CO2e emissions associated with the raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution and usage /end-of-life of the product are compensated through the purchase and retirement of carbon credits generated from CO2 compensation projects. Although these carbon credits have been generated in accordance with international carbon standards, the compensation may not be exact. CO2e (CO2 equivalent) refers to CO2, CH4, N2O. Explore our Lubricants Services Explore our complete toolkit of services, gain full access to Shell expertise and get online and in-person support. Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Insights & Expertise Find out how lubricants can affect you and your maintenance costs, and what else you should think about, including getting the right partners involved. Shell turns uncertainty into knowledge, complexity into simplicity, and difficulty into opportunity With orders to deliver, deadlines to meet and reputation to uphold, unplanned downtime is not an option. It may not be possible to eliminate problems entirely, but it is possible to see them coming and take preventative action. The end result is the same – avoiding lost productivity. At Shell, we help you make more informed decisions with greater certainty. We are an end-to-end solutions provider with a suite of services and tools for your business, from oil analysis, to expert advice delivered on-site and virtually, to training programmes. Whether it is keeping your operation in motion, optimising your lubrication programme more quickly, reskilling and upskilling your people, or capitalising on change – we can maximize profits while minimizing negative impacts. Shell Lubricant Solutions is an expert partner that expands your team, empowers your operations and helps you conquer complexity to take advantage of the opportunities ahead. Oil Condition Monitoring LubeAnalyst uses an oil condition monitoring programme to give your machinery a regular health checkup. On-site Support LubeExperts offer on-site customer support, helping to resolve problems and optimise lubrication. On-site Reliability Service Providers LubeOptimiser is an end-to-end solution designed to help companies address common challenges during the lifetime of machinery oil. Equipment Inspection LubeVideoCheck is a fibre-optic imaging tool that enables internal equipment components to be inspected in a non-invasive way. Virtual Assistant LubeChat offers instant access to technical advice through your smartphone, laptop or desktop. Digital Equipment Management MachineMax is a digital equipment management platform designed to help maximise utilisation and profitability of your off-highway fleet. Mining Industry Marketplace Oren is the first B2B Marketplace for the Mining Sector, offering solutions, software, and services across the end-to-end value chain. Technical Advisors LubeAdvisors provide technical expertise across the globe, on-site, online and over the phone Real-time condition monitoring Remote Sense uses advanced analytics and sensors to deliver real-time oil condition insights. Training Programme LubeCoach provides training in early warning recognition and effective lubricant usage, delivered by technical experts. Solutions Hub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. SOLUTIONS HUB Preventing Equipment Failure Helping your teams protect equipment and preserve asset integrity. Maximising your Output A sophisticated suite of proactive maintenance and training services. Trusted Expertise Filling the maintenance knowledge gap to drive profitability. Lubricant Services Innovation Combining optimised lubrication with Industry 4.0 intelligence. Machinery is becoming more complex, but it’s hard to keep pace with changing maintenance needs when you’re focused on keeping operations going. That’s why added support and expertise for your people goes a long way. We know you are looking for partners who complement your team and help solve problems – like breakdowns, or unscheduled maintenance. Of course, the one thing that is better than solving problems – is preventing them before they arise. Predictive maintenance, including remote equipment and oil condition monitoring, is essential for protecting equipment and preserving your assets. We provide a complete toolkit of services, digital tools, training and expertise to help customers feel more in control of operations, prevent downtime and maximise productivity. Shell LubeAdvisor Technical support to help you choose the right products and improve lubrication processes, to ensure your equipment is protected and ready to deliver value to your business. Shell LubeAnalyst Oil condition monitoring that enables you to continually track your equipment’s performance and use those insights to inform better maintenance decisions. Shell LubeExpert Highly-trained lubricants experts can spend time at your sites, inspecting critical machinery and identifying opportunities to minimise downtime and maximise productivity. Shell LubeCoach Upskill your employees through a customised training programme, delivered in-person or through our e-learning portal by Shell technical experts with substantial in-field experience. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Lubricants End-to-End Solutions From onsite support to online training, explore our comprehensive suite of lubricants tools and services and choose the right one for your business. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. Decisions to invest in upgrading equipment are not made lightly, and come with the expectation of improved efficiency, productivity, and profitability. Yet realising these goals, and maximising your output, all depends on effective maintenance. As equipment becomes more sophisticated, so do maintenance requirements. Proper application and ongoing monitoring of lubricants can make the difference between unexpected issues bringing operations to a halt, and stopping an emerging problem in its tracks. The Shell Lubricant Solutions services portfolio has a number of offerings designed to equip customers with the information and resources you need to implement a more proactive maintenance programme. Bespoke equipment health checks Oil condition monitoring provides a regular health check for your machinery. In-depth personalized reports can uncover early warning signals of potential failures and highlight opportunities for optimisation, to help keep your machinery running. We offer bespoke solutions for a wide range of operations and equipment types: Shell LubeAnalyst – samples sent to our network of ISO-accredited labs Shell LubeAnalyst Lite - on-site tests using table-top diagnostic equipment Shell RemoteSense - real-time oil condition monitoring using advanced artificial intelligence Upskilling employees Key to optimising lubrication is ensuring maintenance staff are equipped with the knowledge and confidence to put the right processes in place. Shell LubeCoach - empowers your maintenance team with the expertise of our technical specialists. Through e-learning, webinars, or face-to-face classroom training workshops, they will gain the knowledge needed to make informed decisions about a fully optimised lubrication plan, resulting in longer equipment and component life. Equipped with the tools and information to optimise equipment lubrication, you will be in a stronger position to minimise downtime, maximise productivity, and realise tangible benefits to your bottom line. Shell LubeAnalyst Shell LubeAnalyst is an oil condition monitoring service to keep your machines running and prevent breakdown by providing you with personalised diagnosis. Shell LubeAnalyst Lite Analyse your oil samples on-site with our sophisticated desktop hardware, for instant results with no need for lab-based analysis. Shell Remote Sense Shell Remote Sense uses advanced analytics to produce actionable insights and recommendations aimed at reducing unplanned downtime, optimising maintenance and extending equipment life. Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeCoach provides access to high-quality training materials and training to help you deliver optimal performance. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Lubricants End-to-End Solutions From onsite support to online training, explore our comprehensive suite of lubricants tools and services and choose the right one for your business. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. The challenges faced by our customers across different industry sectors vary widely, from reducing downtime and cutting costs, to extending equipment life and adapting to Industry 4.0 technologies. However, there is one challenge all sectors are facing: A lack of staff expertise that is contributing to equipment breakdowns. Alongside this is widespread demand for increased access to efficient and ongoing support from trusted experts 1. The Shell Lubricant Solutions services portfolio aims to meet this demand by providing trusted expertise and practical advice that has helped customers worldwide realise tangible benefits to the bottom line. Whether you are looking for instant answers to guide maintenance decisions, training to upskill staff on more effective equipment lubrication, or hands-on support from a seasoned expert, we can help. Shell LubeExpert –Brings the specialists to you, for hands-on support tackling your equipment lubrication challenges. With a wealth of industry and lubrication expertise, our experts work closely with your team to inspect, audit and optimise equipment, systems and processes. By identifying issues and solving problems they can help you minimise downtime and optimise productivity, resulting in real-world savings. Shell LubeCoach – Courses and workshops delivered by experienced technical experts who share valuable knowledge on best-practice equipment lubrication techniques. Staff will walk away equipped to realise the full potential of lubrication for your operations, supporting the successful day-to-day operation of your facility. Shell LubeChat – 24/7 access to a vast array of Shell knowledge and expertise via mobile, tablet or desktop, equipping you to make faster, better-informed decisions that can help bring down your total cost of ownership. Live chat provides answers on-demand, for when support can’t wait. 1 Based on a survey of customers across Mining, Fleet, Power, Manufacturing, Construction and Agriculture industries, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence across 7 countries from March to April 2018 Shell LubeExpert Lube Experts use decades worth of expertise to help you realise your short- and long-term goals. Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeCoach provides access to high-quality training materials and training to help you deliver optimal performance. Shell LubeChat Shell LubeChat offers 24/7 instant access to technical knowledge through your smartphone and computer. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Lubricants End-to-End Solutions From onsite support to online training, explore our comprehensive suite of lubricants tools and services and choose the right one for your business. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. Companies around the world are excited about the potential of Industry 4.0 technologies to improve their operations, as well as the cost savings new high-tech equipment can deliver to their company. However, a lack of expertise on effective maintenance and lubrication could seriously disrupt companies’ efforts to maximize the potential of their high-tech equipment investments. Collaboration will be key to overcoming these obstacles and unlocking progress. Too many companies still underestimate the impact that optimising lubrication can have on the bottom line. When in fact this is essential for companies to realise the potential total cost of ownership (TCO) savings from new high-tech equipment and proper maintenance. At Shell, we pride ourselves on working closely together with customers to help them seize opportunities to get the most out of new technologies. This sharing of expertise will only become more valuable for helping companies navigate the changes ahead. High-tech services to help maintain advanced equipment Shell LubeCoach – A customised training programme designed to give your employees the enhanced knowledge they need to make informed decisions about maintaining more advanced equipment. The workshop-based training provides practical insights into best practices, to help deliver longer lubricant and component life. Shell Remote Sense – A lubricant condition monitoring service that uses smart sensors to enable real-time oil condition monitoring of equipment in remote locations. Using machine learning, it produces actionable insights and recommendations that provide tangible value – improving equipment health, lowering maintenance costs, and increasing operational efficiency. MachineMax – A digital off-highway fleet management service from Shell and wireless telematics company MachineMax, designed to optimise fleet usage and profitability. It uses wireless smart sensors and analytics to tackle the issues of vehicle under-utilisation, high idling time and poor maintenance. Operators and site managers receive real-time information through an intuitive interface that can help them optimise their fleet operations and preventative maintenance programmes. OREN – A B2B marketplace for mining, created by Shell and IBM. Oren connects forward-thinking customers with innovative solutions from trusted companies, to help tackle pressing issues in operations, sustainability, safety, production, and beyond. Shell LubeCoach Shell LubeCoach provides access to high-quality training materials and training to help you deliver optimal performance. Shell Remote Sense Shell Remote Sense uses advanced analytics to produce actionable insights and recommendations aimed at reducing unplanned downtime, optimising maintenance and extending equipment life. OREN: Mining and Industrials B2B Marketplace Oren quickly connects mining and industrial customers with the world’s most innovative solutions. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Lubricants End-to-End Solutions From onsite support to online training, explore our comprehensive suite of lubricants tools and services and choose the right one for your business. Request a service today – Visit SolutionsHub Explore our Solutions Hub to find quick and easy access to information on oil selection, technical training, lubricant analysis and product catalogues. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Learn more about what your engine needs protecting from and what Shell can do to keep your business on the road. As the demands on heavy-duty vehicles evolve, so do their engines. Whether it’s enhanced performance and durability or regulatory emission standards, today’s heavy-duty engines are designed to meet an increasing number of essential operational criteria. Though in theory these innovations expand the capabilities of their vehicles, in practice, they also open up machinery to a range of new sensitivities. While advancements like electronic control technology provide greater precision, enhanced fuel economy and reduced emissions, they require greater protection from performance-robbing deposits and wear. And with engine life increasing, this protection must be able to last the distance, because the alternative can have disastrous consequences. But what exactly does your engine need protecting from? Firstly, deposits must be controlled – from piston deposits to crankcase sludge – as any dirt present in your engine can reduce efficiency and increase fuel costs. What’s more, a low-quality oil may fail to protect vital components from combustion acids, causing corrosion and potentially catastrophic engine failure. While over time, excessive wear can critically damage essential components like the engine valve train or gearbox, where high-pressure contact points are exposed to daily stresses. Shell Rimula and Rotella heavy duty diesel engine oils are formulated with protection in mind, designed to keep the hard-working engines of off-highway equipment or on-highway vehicles running, whatever extreme conditions they may face. You can be safe in the knowledge that your protection will last; our real-world testing proves extended oil drain intervals, allowing you to clock up more miles before your next service. Shell Rimula Truck & Heavy-duty Engine Oils Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Greases There’s more to grease than meets the eye. Find out how the Shell Gadus family of greases can help your business to protect, produce and progress. Hydraulic Fluids Your hydraulic fluid can do more than you might think. Upgrade your energy efficiency and extend your oil life with advanced synthetic hydraulic fluids made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Transmission Fluids Don’t take a one-size-fits-all approach when selecting your transmission fluid. Explore the Shell Spirax range and choose a fluid that fits your needs. Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Getting it right and selecting the oil that will deliver optimum value is critical. Keep up with increasing operating demands with Shell’s range of hydraulic fluids. To remain competitive, operators are working their hydraulic systems harder for longer, which exerts extra stress on hydraulic oils, including higher operating pressures and temperatures. At the same time, mobile hydraulic systems are becoming more compact. Their smaller oil reservoirs restrict heat dispersion, which means higher peak oil temperatures. This increases the risk of oxidation and thus sludge and varnish formation. Smaller reservoirs also reduce the fluid residence time needed for the recovery or release of the contaminants that can cause hydraulic system failure. These pressures can differ between industry, application or environment, meaning your fluid selection must be informed by the needs of your equipment. Fortunately, the Shell Tellus range of hydraulic fluids has been developed with this in mind, so you can select the oil that will deliver optimum value to your specific operations, from construction to manufacturing or mining. Whether working in wet conditions or ultra-low temperatures, high-load requirements or energy efficiency, there will be a Shell Tellus hydraulic fluid to suit your individual equipment needs. For those looking to upgrade energy efficiency and extend oil life, advanced synthetic Shell Tellus S4 VE made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology is designed to deliver. Or, explore our Shell Naturelle range: a selection of environmentally acceptable lubricants and greases (EALs), with a high proportion meeting tough new internationally recognised EU Ecolabel requirements and approved by leading manufacturers, especially suitable for environmentally sensitive applications in forestry, agriculture, mining, construction, power and marine. Greases There’s more to grease than meets the eye. Find out how the Shell Gadus family of greases can help your business to protect, produce and progress. Heavy Duty Diesel Engine Oils Designed to keep the hard-working engines of off-highway equipment or on-highway vehicles running, whatever extreme conditions they may face. Transmission Fluids Don’t take a one-size-fits-all approach when selecting your transmission fluid. Explore the Shell Spirax range and choose a fluid that fits your needs. Lubricants Applications Discover how using the right lubricant can help reduce maintenance costs for your business. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high-quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Gadus - Greases Shell Gadus products can help to optimise your system’s efficiency and costs of operation. Find out how else it can deliver best value for your business. E-Fluids and E-Greases: Lubricating the Future of Mobility Explore the Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases range engineered specifically for high-tech powertrains of electric vehicles. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Keep up with expectations by securing increased reliability and reduced equipment downtime through Shell’s gear oil products. Like many industrial components, gearboxes are becoming smaller, more sophisticated and, as a result, running under higher temperatures and pressures. And as designs change, so do expectations of greater reliability and improved performance. As such, modern gearboxes require greater protection from their lubricating oil in order to perform to their full potential. At the heart of this is ensuring the adequate protection of seals. One leading gearbox manufacturer has suggested that seal issues are the main limits on extending operating times before maintenance is required.1 And what’s more, 40 per cent of seal failures relate to oil compatibility problems.2 The good news is that the latest Shell Omala gear oil, Shell Omala S4 GXV, has been designed to meet the most recent seal compatibility specifications that have been introduced by leading manufacturers. In fact, the entire Shell Omala range has been specially curated to meet any industrial gearbox need: Shell Omala “G” Range – Enclosed industrial spur and bevel gear applications from standard to demanding high-load and extended-duty applications. Shell Omala Specialty Range – Enclosed industrial spur and bevel gears for special applications such as extra shock-load protection or particulate contamination control. Shell Omala “W” Range – Industrial worm-drive applications from standard to demanding high-load and extended-duty applications, including Shell Omala S5 Wind 320, a carbon neutral gearbox oil with an industry-leading 10-year warranty. From mining to manufacturing, the Omala family offers you the versatility needed for any operation, delivering performance no matter the demands. Explore the Omala range today to extend your maintenance-free operations. 1,2Read more about Shell Omala Gear Oils products Gear Oils Designed to protect your grinding mills, open gears and industrial gearboxes operating under demanding high-load and extended-duty applications. Greases There’s more to grease than meets the eye. Find out how the Shell Gadus family of greases can help your business to protect, produce and progress. Hydraulic Fluids Your hydraulic fluid can do more than you might think. Upgrade your energy efficiency and extend your oil life with advanced synthetic hydraulic fluids made with gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology. Lubricants Applications Discover how using the right lubricant can help reduce maintenance costs for your business. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high-quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Efficient performance requires reduced maintenance time and increased uptime. Make the right choices with Shell’s range of specialist compressor oils. Your compressor system is vital for efficient performance. When properly lubricated, it can help to effectively regulate your equipment, maintaining a stable temperature and reducing the risk of wear. But to do so, your compressor oil must be able to suppress foaming, release trapped air and rapidly separate out condensed water. This takes a specially formulated, adaptable oil. One that has a higher viscosity index but lower pour point than most mineral-based oils. The solution is a gas-to-liquids (GTL) base oil. GTL technology allows your compressor oil to remain close to its optimal viscosity over a wider range of ambient temperature or extended operations. How do we know this? From extensive testing in close cooperation with customers and equipment makers just like you. The result is a Shell Corena air compressor oil range that is backed by leading industry players, because it was developed in collaboration with them. Even in high temperature, high humidity regions, Shell Corena S5 R has proven capable of oil-drain intervals up to 10,000 hours. That’s not only maintenance time saved that can be spent on more demanding parts of your business, but it’s also increased uptime, which equals greater productivity. And if it’s something more specialist you’re in need of, then the Shell Corena range also includes both dedicated rotary compressor oils and oils for reciprocating compressors as well. Shell Corena – Compressor Oils Explore our Shell Corena range of air compressor oils. Speciality Products From transformers to turbines, or something even more specialised, we have you covered. View our Shell Diala, Shell Turbo, Shell Tonna and Shell Morlina ranges. Lubricants Applications Discover how using the right lubricant can help reduce maintenance costs for your business. Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high-quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Keeping the balance between reduced equipment downtime and maintaining enhanced efficiency is vital to keeping your business moving forward. Transmissions come in all sorts of shapes and sizes, depending on their industry usage. The biggest commonality between a transmission in a heavy-duty truck and one in an excavator – besides the challenges they face – is that they have both been meticulously engineered for that specific application. The reason being that different gearboxes, axles and transmissions operate under varying conditions. They therefore have different requirements from a lubricating fluid. In fact, using a single transmission fluid for two distinct applications can quickly compromise either the wear protection or efficiency of your components. Sufficient wear protection helps to extend equipment life, while maintaining efficiency is vital for maximising the return on your investment. Balancing the two is where the problem lies. This is why we’ve clocked more than 20 million kilometres of field trials while testing Shell Spirax S6 GXME and Shell Spirax S6 AXME, collecting numerous vehicle and automotive component manufacturer approvals along the way. The learnings we’ve gained over decades of testing conventional fluids are now helping us to put the future in motion. Built on the back of this expertise, Shell Lubricant Solutions has formulated a specialised range of E-Transmission Fluids that meet the specific demands of EVs and support the ongoing drive toward electric mobility and cleaner energy solutions. With the International Energy Agency anticipating between 130 and 250 million EVs on the road by 2030, we’re committed to providing ultimate protection no matter what powers your equipment.1 1 https://www.iea.org/reports/global-ev-outlook-2019 Shell Spirax – Axle and Transmission Oils Designed to help keep transmission components protected so that they can go on working efficiently. Discover more about the Shell Spirax product range. E-Fluids and E-Greases: Lubricating the Future of Mobility Explore the Shell E-Fluids and E-Greases range engineered specifically for high-tech powertrains of electric vehicles. Greases There’s more to grease than meets the eye. Find out how the Shell Gadus family of greases can help your business to protect, produce and progress. Lubricants Applications Discover how using the right lubricant can help reduce maintenance costs for your business. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high-quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Explore Shell’s range of speciality fluids and oils and discover how to enhance all of your business’s specialist applications. Shell Diala Transformers provide the heartbeat of electricity generation and distribution, working under harsh conditions with the aim of delivering efficient and uninterrupted power supply. The Shell Diala range of transformer oils provides your equipment with lifelong protection from corrosion and sludge, with extended oil life, through higher oxidation stability and enhanced heat transfer performance. Greater efficiency over a wide range of operating temperatures makes it well suited to the reduced sizes, increased loads and higher voltages of next generation transformers. For units in environmentally sensitive locations, the readily biodegradable Shell Diala S5 BD offers the performance customers expect from Shell Diala, while helping meet their sustainability requirements. Shell Turbo A power plant is only as successful as the turbines that generate its energy efficiently, since when a turbine goes offline, the plant often follows. With such an integral role to play, turbines – from their bearings to their control valves – must be able to run reliably 24/7, much of which comes down to having an effective maintenance schedule in place. A large part of this equation is the turbine oil you choose for your equipment. A high-quality turbine oil can help deliver value to your operations, through enhanced protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. The Shell Turbo family of oils do just this. Formulated to offer outstanding oxidative stability, contamination control and anti-wear protection, Shell Turbo can help your turbines fulfil their operating potential confidently. Shell Tonna Every part of your equipment has been carefully engineered to maximise performance of the application at hand. Your machine tool slides, tables and feed mechanisms are a perfect example of this. Equally, specialist applications need specialist lubricants, which is why Shell Lubricant Solutions have a number of machine tool slideway oils available to meet the challenges you face when working with demanding systems and multiple materials. The Shell Tonna range of slideway oils brings accuracy and reliability to your operations, with excellent frictional properties, slideway adhesion and anti-wear performance. Shifting your lubrication responsibilities to Shell Tonna can help to unlock a range of hidden value, from extending your coolant sump life to increasing the speed of your operations. Shell Morlina Lubrication systems in industrial equipment can differ considerably, though one constant is their need to operate at, or beyond, their original design parameters, particularly in the face of high-temperature and operationally demanding conditions. At the heart of many of these systems lies your bearings, small components that have a big say when it comes to performance. Overlooking bearing condition – or the resulting circulating performance of your system – can have disastrous consequences for both your operations and finances. No matter your application, protecting your components from wear and securing effective circulation should therefore be a key maintenance priority for you and your team. The Shell Morlina family of bearing and circulating oils has been designed to help you deliver results consistently. With robustness and reliability at their core, the diverse range of oils offer the required qualities for any environment, whether you need a fully synthetic product fortified with extreme-pressure additives or speciality products designed to deal with hot, wet or dusty environments. Beyond Diala, Turbo, Tonna and Morlina, we also cater for applications that require heat transfer oils, refrigeration oils and varnish removal fluids, among others. If you’d like to speak to one of our team about finding a solution for your specialist application, please click here. Shell Diala – Transformer Oils Explore ways to ensure efficient equipment operation throughout its lifetime through the Shell Diala transformer oil range. Shell Turbo – Turbine Oils Turbine oils specially designed to minimise downtime under continuous operating conditions. Learn how the Shell Turbo turbine oil range can enhance productivity and efficiency for your business. Shell Tonna – Slideways Oils Premium machine tool slideways oil that provides efficient machining accuracy and reliable protection for your equipment. Shell Morlina – Bearing and Circulating Oils Discover more about our Shell Morlina range to find a bearing and circulating oil to match your business’s needs. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. A competitive business is a successful business. Shell Lubricant Solutions can help you keep the lights on. The stationary engines that power our world are being increasingly pushed to the limit. As engine manufacturers’ designs become more sophisticated, yet susceptible to harsh environments, power producers face a balancing act of maximising the potential of their machines while ensuring protection is adequately provided. This dynamic is set against a background of rapidly changing market pressures ranging from tightening emission controls to fuel availability. Though reliability and performance are still expected at the flick of switch. All of which results in greater stress being placed on your equipment. Managing this stress can be achieved by ensuring your engine oil – a vital component of any maintenance regime – is suitably equipped for the pressures and temperatures your engines are exposed to. Protection is only one consideration, however. To stay competitive and maintain profitability, you need an engine oil that can help improve efficiency and reduce operational costs. Whether your stationary engine runs on heavy fuel oil, distillates and liquid biofuels, or natural or sour gas, Shell Lubricant Solutions has an engine oil that can help you keep the lights on. Shell Mysella Range– Formulated for the latest high-brake-mean-effective-pressure engines, Shell Mysella S7 N Ultra offers ultra-extended oil life and excellent deposit handling. Shell Argina Range – Designed for the latest, high-output and dual-fuel engines from MAN and Wärtsilä, Shell Argina S5 has improved base number retention and viscosity control. Shell Gadinia Range – Developed for diesel engines and approved for a broad range of ancillary equipment, Shell Gadinia S3 helps minimise lacquering and provide enhanced wear performance. Shell Mysella – Stationary Gas Engine Oils Gas-engine oils developed to deliver enhanced wear protection, long oil life and high system efficiency. Explore Shell’s wide range of Shell Mysella products that match your business’s needs. Shell Argina and Gadinia – Power Engine Oils Shell Argina and Gadinia are specially designed to minimise deposit build-up and to keep your engine clean. Speciality Products From transformers to turbines, or something even more specialised, we have you covered. View our Shell Diala, Shell Turbo, Shell Tonna and Shell Morlina ranges. Lubricants Applications Discover how using the right lubricant can help reduce maintenance costs for your business. Shell Lubricant Solutions Explore our high quality lubricants and expert lubrication services designed to help create sustainable value for businesses. Explore our Product Catalogue Explore our range of high-quality lubricants. Designed by experts, our products create substantial savings for businesses by helping to increase component efficiency, prolong equipment life and significantly reduce downtime. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Our Perspectives Content HubThe world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Shell Lubricant Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Lubrication is a foundational part of most industrial operations. However, because it represents only a relatively small percentage of total operating costs, its potential impact on operational and environmental success can often be overlooked. With energy demands rising and equipment becoming more powerful, the role of lubricant is only set to grow. It is increasingly important for operators to understand how it can contribute to business and sustainability aims – especially across large, complex value chains. Thanks to its protective qualities, the right lubrication can help extend equipment life and support productivity. In turn, this helps improve energy efficiency and lower carbon intensity, reducing emissions as a result. With the correct processes and procedures in place, effective fluid management can contribute to a reduction in waste, while re-refined base oils allow operators to adopt circular economy thinking. Biodegradables and environmentally acceptable lubricants like Shell Naturelle, can help contribute to a more sustainable future, offering greater protection for wildlife and ecosystems in the event that the lubricant comes into contact with the environment, in comparison to conventional lubricants, safeguarding sensitive ecosystems, without compromising equipment performance. Gavin Warner: General Manager, Sustainability at Shell Global Lubricants As the general manager for sustainability within Shell, Gavin Warner is helping to define and drive the overall sustainability transformation agenda within the business’ lubricants division. This means embedding sustainability into every stage of the business’ culture, systems, and processes, so that Shell can support the sustainability needs of its customers while putting its own Powering Progress strategy into action. The challenge With sustainability increasingly becoming a driving force behind business strategy, companies across every industrial sector are being forced to reconsider how their operational output relates to their environmental impact. Between its capacity to improve energy efficiency, reduce waste and support wider environmental factors, fluid management is arguably one area that deserves greater attention. But, to realise this promise, there is work to be done to shift the longstanding industry view of lubrication from a necessary cost to a potential opportunity. The solution With the right mindset, products and strategy in place, the marginal gains that lubrication can deliver across a business can contribute to a sustainability transformation that does not endanger, but instead drives, operational success. Is it time to put more focus on lubrication’s role? Given the events that took place across 2020, it’s not surprising that global lubricant demand reaching a historic high of 37 million metric tons did not make the headlines.1 Even for those embedded in industries that deal with lubricants day in, day out – from manufacturing to mining – lubrication tends to be further down the list of maintenance priorities. As more and more businesses align their decisions with growing sustainability directives, however, lubrication is perhaps starting to take more of a critical role. Which is welcome news to Gavin Warner, General Manager, Sustainability at Shell Global Lubricants, whose role is heavily focused on helping Shell – and its customers – realise the full environmental potential that lubrication offers. “What is really encouraging about lubrication,” explains Warner, “is that it fully integrates two important elements of Shell’s decarbonisation agenda: achieving net-zero emissions and respecting nature. And because, ultimately, our lubricants are products that we provide in service of customers, this doesn’t only allow Shell to benefit from reduced emissions and environmental benefits but helps customers to do so as well.” The importance of a fluid approach to value chain emissions Stitching areas of an industrial operation together, by understanding the different links and where they intersect, is becoming increasingly important for companies looking to improve their sustainability credentials. After all, carbon emissions are produced at every stage of the value chain from the sourcing and use of raw materials, to production, distribution and to losses in use and on disposal after use. Indeed, some estimates suggest that more than 90% of the average business’ carbon footprint originates in the value chain – meaning decarbonisation is something that must happen at each stage and every step.3 “Because one company’s product may well be another company’s raw material – and that raw material falls into their carbon footprint scope – it’s extremely important to consider the entire value chain when discussing sustainability,” says Warner. “So, if you’re at the beginning of a sustainability journey, the first thing we would suggest to do is calculate your footprint across the full value chain. Go beyond your factory gates and what it is you deliver and consider everything from the raw materials that you source, through to what happens to the product you sell at the end of its life.” This value-chain approach makes understanding the differences between Scopes 1, 2 and 3 critical for industrial operators, particularly those whose operations interact across sectors and geographies. Three ways your oil can make an impact “The products that we offer today from a lubrication standpoint are able to help customers deliver in a few key areas,” says Warner, “such as fuel and energy efficiency, circular economy and waste reduction, as well as biodegradability.” 1. Energy efficiency and emissions reductions At its core, a lubricant is designed to reduce friction. Doing so helps it perform its primary role of reducing wear and tear – protecting equipment so that it can perform better, for longer. The result of this is threefold: less energy is wasted; the energy that is used performs more efficiently; and consequently, output becomes less carbon intensive. “When you convert this into what it means from a CO2 point of view,” explains Warner, “our most advanced, low viscosity lubricants can actually increase energy efficiency in industrial applications by up to 4.4%.6 When you add that together with the ability to extend engine or machine life, then it all points towards lower emissions for customers.” Shell’s approach to emissions reduction where we first avoid creating carbon emissions wherever possible and then reduce emissions that cannot be avoided, is, how Shell has successfully taken out over 40 kton CO2 equivalent (CO2e) emissions from its own lubricant and grease operations, reducing its production carbon intensity by more than 40% since 2016.7 2. Waste reduction and the circular economy When an oil supports the extension of oil-drain intervals and equipment life, while reducing the need for maintenance or part replacement, it contributes to waste reduction. However, there are other factors at play when it comes to lubrication’s role in waste management. A circular economy view of material usage and maintenance – where materials are reused, repurposed, and recycled and equipment is kept in use for longer – opens further sustainability opportunities for companies that regularly purchase and use lubrication. “At Shell, waste management and circular economy thinking have become really important from a lubricants perspective,” says Warner. “Because lubrication is a product, rather than an energy or a fuel, we have opportunities to look at what happens to those products at the end of their use or life. Equally, we have opportunities to look at the plastics in packaging that are used to transport our products. And we also have opportunities – as an industry – to look more closely at the refining of waste oils.” Lubricants are typically made with virgin base oils, which are derived from virgin fossil-based crudes, which come with emissions associated with the extraction and production of crude, but also emissions associated with the refining and processing into base oils. Re-refined Base Oils (RRBO) is derived through removing water, contaminants, and spent additives to create good quality recycled oils which can be used in lubricants with a robust quality management system. Overall, this is a less energy intensive process, helps to drive waste reduction and conserve natural resources and helps to prevent further CO2e emissions from being created by avoiding improper disposal and incineration. 3. Biodegradables and Environmentally Acceptable Lubricants (EAL) Likewise, biodegradable lubricants and EALs are further helping to transform the role that lubrication can play as part of a more sustainable industrial world, by providing greater peace of mind to business leaders from a safety and regulatory perspective. The industry faces a delicate balancing act: how to meet demand and drive profitability while improving its environmental impact. Projects taking place near woodland, farmland and waterways require careful management – with mismanagement not only causing damage to a company’s reputation but also to its license to operate. They are one area that can have a positive impact on performance and decarbonisation across a wide range of industries. They can prove an effective tool for helping companies to do more with less – achieving that difficult balance between sustainability and productivity. “Biodegradable or environmentally acceptable lubricants are an opportunity to reduce the risks in the event a lubricant comes into contact with the environment” explains Warner. “And, as the technology improves, we are increasingly seeing the performance capability of biodegradables match that of standard lubricants – meaning it’s not a performance compromise for operators, but a sustainability opportunity Shell Naturelle is a perfect example. As a range of biodegradable lubricants, they are approved by leading manufacturers for use in applications such as agriculture, forestry, inland waterways and those that have a potential oil-to-sea interface. Whether dredging in lakes, running turbines in the arctic or mining near water supplies, industry must minimise the impact of any contact with the environment (soil and water). And it’s not just performance parity that makes these lubricants a more attractive prospect. Industry applications for biodegradables are extremely varied and are evolving to the point where they can be used in almost every system that a conventional lubricant is traditionally found, with particular relevance for: Total loss systems – including chainsaw lubricants, corrosion preventatives and mould release oils Hydraulics – such as for excavators working in environmentally sensitive sites Water pumps and grease applications – where accidental or partial release into the environment is unavoidable. How Shell can help refine your industrial operations Looking ahead, lubrication demand is unlikely to fall any time soon. As populations grow, energy needs rise and machinery becomes more complex, sectors will continue to turn to their lubricants to keep the wheels of industry turning. And as operational output rises, emissions must fall. Fortunately, lubrication can help contribute to this. And importantly, it can do so without compromising performance. “We still believe that product performance and quality is paramount, so we will keep delivering the highest performance, highest quality products to our customers,” says Warner. “In addition, we’ll also consider how we can continue to work with our customers to understand the additional benefits of lowering emissions, reducing waste, saving costs and unlocking efficiencies.” “After all, our goal is to help customers grow their business while enabling them to meet and exceed both their commercial and sustainability targets.” Glossary Waste management A strategy for reducing the waste associated with an operation, by avoiding, reducing, and reusing products. It requires planning, investment, and legislative awareness to be successful. Circular economy The aim to create a world in which nothing is ever wasted. Achieved by ensuring products are designed to either last longer or be reused, repurposed, or recycled. Re-refined base oils (RRBO) Base oils that have been sourced by recycling used oils, as part of a process that removes old additives and dirt material before distilling the remaining base oil, which is still able to perform its original role as efficiently as virgin base oil. Environmentally acceptable lubricants (EAL) Fluids that are readily biodegradable, minimally, or non-toxic, and non-bioaccumulative. Disclaimers 1 Statista. “Global demand for lubricants from 2000 to 2020, with a forecast for 2023 and 2028.” 2022. 2 Shell Lubricant Solutions. “Under Pressure: Leading in Paradox Industries.” 2021 3 Saverio Lapini and Evan Farbstein. “Why your value chain’s carbon footprint matters.” Normative. March 05, 2021 4 CDP. “Supply chains hold the key to one gigaton of emissions savings, finds new report.” December 09, 2019. 5 Shell Lubricant Solutions. “Under Pressure: Leading in Paradox Industries.” 2021. 6 Statistically validated, average savings per hour observed during a third-party field trial using Shell Tellus S4 VE formulation ISO VG 32 and compared with the original ISO VG 46 fluid. 7 Figures are based on FY2021 and includes activities such as process optimisation, direct use of renewable energy including Solar installations and well as use of renewable energy credits. This refers to lubricant blending and grease manufacturing plants under Shell Direct Operational Control and does not represent the whole of Shell’s operations. 8 European Commission. “EU Ecolabel facts and figures.” September 2022. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Four companies taking a new approach to sustainable manufacturing See the real-world examples that prove there is more than one way to achieve sustainable success. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. When I joined Shell more than 23 years ago, I never imagined that I’d one day become Executive Vice President of the Global Commercial business, supporting a team that serves more than one million customers worldwide. It’s been a long journey to get here and there’s certainly been some mistakes along the way. Throughout the ups and downs however, I like to think that what Shell saw in me from my very first day, was my potential. Potential is such an important thing and something which Shell values greatly. No person, project, or company is perfect from the beginning. But with a little potential – and a lot of hard work – there is always cause for optimism. Take the Shell Eco-Marathon, for instance. Now one of the world’s leading student engineering competitions, it all started when a Shell Research Director, Bob Greenshields, made a friendly wager with his colleagues to see who could get the best fuel economy from road cars adapted to maximise energy efficiency. Bob’s initial record of 49 MPG certainly didn’t last too long, but the legacy of the idea did. The team saw the potential in combining the brightest student minds with the puzzle of road transport energy efficiency. And they haven’t looked back since. And just as Bob saw potential in that idea, we continue to see our own potential for changing the course of global issues, such as sustainability. Our Global Commercial business helps drive projects across the world through close collaboration with industry leaders such as Neste and Deloitte, all with the aim of providing more and cleaner energy solutions that will bring us closer to our goal of becoming a net-zero carbon business by 2050. And now, as a next step on our journey, we are proud to announce the transition of our lubricants business to Shell Lubricant Solutions. Driven by a desire to help our customers realise their full potential, this change will see us adapt from a lubricants supplier to an end-to-end solutions provider. Solutions that tie together two of today’s key business drivers: sustainability and profitability. To show what this means in practice, I’d like to share three examples with you: Dilip Buildcon Having grown from five employees in a small garage in India to the largest engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) company in the country, Dilip Buildcon knows a thing or two about potential. As a partner, we’ve helped the EPC leader maintain their now 11-000-strong equipment fleet with maintenance solutions, such as our premium Shell Gadus greases. But unlocking potential isn’t restricted to equipment. It’s equally as, if not more, important when it comes to the potential of your people. Having always held workforce safety in high regard, Dilip Buildcon engaged us to support on employee safety training and wellness drives, including on-site eye-check-up camps. Together, we’re helping to power progress through solutions that have people at their core. Fuels and Lubricants Joint Testing Sometimes, the best solutions are a product of thinking outside the box. While consumables are traditionally tested in silo, we recently brought together the best of Shell Global Commercial by combining our fuels and lubricants in extensive field trials, to investigate whether a combined efficiency package could help our customers meet their performance and sustainability targets. Across two independently administered tests, the combination of our Shell premium fuels and lubricants resulted in some astonishing performance benefits. For on-highway vehicles, an 8.9 per cent combined fuel economy was achieved, while off-highway equipment benefitted from an additional 2.83 hectares (agriculture), 236 (construction) or 472 operating hours (mining) as a result of the efficiency package. While 100 per cent injector deposit clean-up proves that environmental goals don’t have to be sacrificed. Immersion Cooling And finally, there’s our growing role in immersion cooling solutions. The capabilities of cloud-based technology are undeniably improving our work and lives, but these advancements come with a hidden downside. The energy-hungry data centres they require account for an estimated one per cent of global electricity consumption, more than a third of which is used solely to cool electronic components. Immersion cooling – submerging entire components in a dielectric fluid – has emerged as an effective means of reducing the energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions of this process. And Shell has developed Shell Immersion Cooling Fluid S5 X to work as part of an integrated energy solution for data centres. Alongside Asperitas, our immersion cooling specialist partner, we are helping to advance the clean potential of datacentres, by making industry growth sustainable. If these projects prove anything, it’s that we all must go further in providing products or services that don’t just fill the immediate need, but help set up a business or industry for greater long-term success. At Shell, we’re doing this through end-to-end solutions that prioritise sustainable business growth. First, by providing the right product to help customers reach their performance potential, but then, by combining this with technical expertise and maintenance services to help them understand what needs to be done to maintain these results over time. To find out more about how Shell Lubricant Solutions is helping customers to unlock their full potential, visit: https://www.shell.co.uk/business-customers/lubricants-for-business.html Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Whatever line of business you work in, you’re always somewhat at the mercy of external conditions. As a result, the most successful businesses are those that use trends and customer data to best predict how the business environment is likely to shape up over the coming months and years. Doing so gives them an advantage over competitors by allowing a proactive approach to change. However, 2020 has put this theory to the test in the most extreme way possible. It’s difficult to interpret data and spot trends when society – never mind your industry – is in unchartered territory. Especially when the consequences of the current environment – limited workforces, tighter margins, increased output – are so severe. For our customers, the best way to emerge from this uncertainty successfully, is to protect the productivity and reliability of their operations. And so, it’s our job to help ensure this can still happen. And not just by aiding in business growth, but by ensuring this growth is built on a foundation of sustainability. I recently came across this McKinsey report– What Now? Decisive Actions to Emerge Stronger in the Next Normal – which really nails the idea of companies having to cultivate resilience by rebuilding for the long-term. It’s definitely worth a read, but here are the top three points I took from it and why they’re so important for Shell Lubricant Solutions, as we further embrace our new evolving values and positioning as a brand: 1. Think Of ‘The Return’ As A Muscle As companies begin to recover from the impact of COVID-19, there are certain capabilities that need to be continually ‘exercised’ in order to ensure a consistent level of performance. ‘It’s a marathon, not a sprint’ may be a cliché, but it’s also more relevant now than ever. Positive business change requires constant improvement and companies must start planning their strategy with a long-term goal in mind, as opposed to quick fixes that may protect in the immediate but are not sustainable. Our recent transition to Shell Lubricant Solutions was borne out of this understanding that our customers require end-to-end solutions that go beyond the initial ‘new product boost’ and can set them up for sustainable success. In practice, this approach builds on product selection by integrating the accompanying digital tools and services that can help the company to optimise performance. Whether this takes the form of the oil condition monitoring (OCM) capabilities of Shell LubeAnalyst or the virtual training programmes offered by Shell LubeCoach, it gives businesses a greater: ability to plan ahead; confidence in their equipment; and peace of mind from increased staff safety. 2. Focus on High-Impact Actions This one may seem obvious, but it’s a good reminder to continually ask the simple question of ‘which actions would be best for the business?’ McKinsey points out that these will differ for each company. And this is key. For some, an investment in new technologies, while initially expensive, may lead to considerably greater savings down the line. While for others who are less able to invest right now, there may actually be technologies that are already in place but are perhaps not being used to their full potential. The important thing to remember here is that ‘high impact’ doesn’t necessarily equate to ‘high cost’. To help get this message across during conversations with our own customers, we speak a lot about Total Cost of Ownership (TCO). Doing so recently helped our Russian team to generate an estimated $52 million worth of savings for mining company Kazminerals, largely by identifying a number of Value Improvement Projects that can help deliver sizeable TCO reductions. Of course, this is ‘high impact’ in the sense of the savings made, but it also helps the customer to realise their potential for higher overall performance moving forward. 3. Reset technology plans The last point that really struck me was McKinsey’s directive to ‘reset technology plans’. Having just reflected on how technology investment must be plotted against individual business standing, it’s also true that the type of technology being invested in must be fit for purpose. This means that the technology being considered must be matched with specific needs in the present, as well as prospective value in the future. And in the current climate of ‘less hands but more work’, it’s vital that any new technologies brought in prioritise productivity and efficiency, because that is ultimately what our customers need right now. So, we make it a cornerstone of all our products and services. Whether it’s the real-time OCM provided by Shell Remote Sense or long-term digital transformation that Oren enables, the maintenance solutions we offer are designed to add as much value to our customers’ operations as possible, while making as little impact – environmentally or financially – as we can. We’re all learning how to adapt to this New Normal or ‘Next Normal’ as McKinsey label it. But in reality, I think the term ‘normal’ perhaps undersells it. There may be little that we would have called normal a year ago that we will think of in the same way in three, five or ten-years’ time. What does need to be normalised however, is business behaviour that is: proactive rather than reactive; long-term in strategy; and resilient in nature. To find out more about how Shell Lubricant Solutions is helping customers adapt to an evolving industry environment, visit: https://www.shell.co.uk/business-customers/lubricants-for-business.html Shell Lubricant Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Browse our lubricants and find out which is best for your business through our expert advice, support, and case studies. Seven specialists from Shell's Lubricants division were on hand to deliver their tips and tricks. From Scott Kwas, Gary Roberts, Siva Kasturi, Greg Paluska, Praveen Nagpal, Robert Profilet and Raghavendran Madhavarao, here is what you need to know to get the best from your machines and the best for your business. Economies don’t have to be in difficulty for companies to want to find cost savings, especially when it comes to economy vs premium lubricants. Most would argue it’s simply good business sense. The challenges come when things that look like good value turn out to be costlier in the long run. These false economies can be a burden on business and are often hard to put right. Shell’s Global Product Application Specialist, Praveen Nagpal explains: “Unplanned stoppages are critical. Historically, the customer has had the mindset of defaulting to the cheapest supplier. But they’ve come to realise that’s never been a good solution. A higher number of failures, oil changes and unplanned stoppages means the initial investment was less but now there are plenty more losses on top.” Often, overspending isn’t picked up until a great deal of time has passed. In some cases, it can even go unnoticed altogether, masked by any number of contributing factors. Choice of lubricant is key One of the biggest opportunities for falling into the false economy trap is in choice of lubricant. As manufacturer and supplier technologies have progressed, there can be a dizzying array of lubricant choices covering a range of price points. Shell’s Eastern US Technical Manager Greg Paluska explains: “There is still the hurdle where some of our customers say – yes these fluids are more expensive – there’s a reason for that – they’re harder to manufacture. But the advantages and whole cost of ownership store is pretty dramatic. Cost of oil is only one factor.” Cheaper lubricants have their place – but they are also, in most cases, only a short-term saving. The right lubricants which can be, if necessary, premium lubricants, are important when reducing machine downtime, TCO and developing total productive maintenance. Nagpal says: “If the application needs a mainstream product and you still push for a premium product, it can definitely increase your total cost of ownership. Proposals need to be aligned with customer need.” Education is critical. The answer to these issues is two-fold: One, it pays to choose a lubricant that is specifically designed for the engine, pump or gear workings it supplies – which helps manage maintenance cycles. Two, choose a premium lubricant where possible and appropriate: “Customers’ general view is that lubricants are just an industrial consumable. It’s in constant need of replacement. It is also only a small part of the overall maintenance budget, typically 2%-3%. So it doesn’t take up much of the customer’s consideration. But also, they’re not aware how that 3% can have a bigger knock-on effect further down the line.” Raghavendran Madhavarao, Sector Marketing Manager for Shell concludes. “They sometimes can’t believe lubricants play such a big role in the total cost of ownership. It’s up to us to help them understand more.” Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Having Shell experts available doesn’t just provide customers with the best lubricant strategy but also gives a wider perspective on business. By immersing themselves in customer business challenges, Shell experts intuitively understand the difference a component change or increase in production cycle might have on future success. Understanding the choices customers make about their equipment beyond lubricants is Siva Kasturi’s speciality. Shell’s resident expert on manufacturer (OEM) partnerships, it’s his job to keep up to date with innovations and guide Shell lubricant customers on what these innovations mean for them. “Interestingly, many of the OEMs might not even be our customers. But industry reports show that manufacturers have a strong influence on customers’ lubrication strategies. Working with OEMs on technology partnerships and product approvals is vital.” It’s this high level of technical knowledge about the machines Shell’s customers use that makes their expert resource so valuable. “My challenge isn’t just suggesting a product to the customer, it’s making sure using it is practically possible.” Demonstrating value for money One of the challenges Shell’s experts come up against is helping their customers to understand the value proposition of a certain lubricant, particularly if it’s a premium product. Usually, this is done by showing how using premium oils lower the total cost of ownership over time. Kasturi acknowledges that this may not always be possible. “Sometimes I might not be able to offer very strong value to the customer because it just has to be the right product in the right application. All the products are wonderful but it doesn’t mean they match every application.” It’s clear that customers face some complex decision-making when choosing the best lubricant to maintain equipment performance, improve TCO and reduce machine downtime. Guiding them through this process is a vital part of the Shell expert’s role and it’s one where they find themselves being part expert, part educator. “I have to make sure that the time I have with my customer is spent communicating very simply, pragmatically and effectively. I need to cover more than just the cost or wear and tear differentials. I need to give him a holistic view of the impact any particular lubricant is going to have.” Monitoring is key to management Kasturi also points out that his role is ongoing. Lubricants are only successful if they’re monitored and managed properly and the same can be said for customer relationships: “How do we make sure our customer is able to make the most of his choice? We need to register him for oil analysis programmes and give him regular training. Unless those things happen – he is using the right bearing, the right seal or filter – he won’t get the best value from his lubricant.” Here again is where Shell’s close relationships with OEMs, driven by experts like Kasturi, come into their own. Understanding the impact using one component over another and how that changes lubricant effectiveness can have a huge effect on the value customers can extract from their engines, turbines or pumps and reduce machine downtime. “It’s easy to walk into the mining or construction industry to sell consumables but do you know how many lubrication joints there are in an excavator, or a backhoe loader. We are trying to help our customers with an end-to-end approach to lubrication. If I’m not advising my customers proactively, then I am also part of the problem.” Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. How predictive maintenance can save time, money - and even lives This article will look at the latest developments in the field, covering: How can predictive maintenance help protect assets? Are there cost savings to be made? Will the nature of sensing change? What are the applications of predictive maintenance? Next steps for predictive maintenance Is AI a technology that can help? How can predictive maintenance help protect assets? Predictive maintenance (PdM) – which is aimed at reducing the likelihood of failures and, as a result, avoid costly downtime and lower maintenance costs – comes to the fore when companies address asset management. PdM can be implemented by monitoring the condition and performance of equipment during its normal operation, and using sensor technology and computerised maintenance management system (CMMS) software. Alongside the sensors, PdM software can access a number of different data sources in real time, which can then predict asset failure or quality issues. These solutions use predictive analytics to detect any anomalies and failure patterns, determining where any problems or failures are likely to occur. Dirk Claessens, IBM managing director for its Royal Dutch Shell account, explained how this technology all comes together in real-world applications, saying: “The objective is an increase in reliability of the overall asset or part of the asset.” “The predictive part is not just taking data from the automation piece, but a whole host of data: it could be maintenance logs, weather data, production forecasts and so on.” “It’s all about reliability. Depending on where you come from – whether you are an OEM manufacturer equipment supplier or an owner operator – you will have a different viewpoint.” Claessens also explained how owner operators tend to be more interested in reliability in the overall operation, with the result that they’re more interested in how the maintenance service orders affect the overall production performance. OEMs, on the other hand, are more interested in becoming more efficient and effective in the machine itself. This is a more limited scope, in order to provide a better service to their clients and isn’t necessarily tightly integrated with the overall planned performance. Are there cost savings to be made? The cost of that increased reliability is not to be discounted, either. A McKinsey Global Institute report, The Internet of Things: Mapping the Value Beyond the Hype, suggested that manufacturers’ savings from predictive maintenance could globally total between $240 and $630bn by 2025. That’s a lot of money, which makes academic research into predictive maintenance a worthwhile investment. Professor Julie McCann, from London’s Imperial College, is one such academic. She and her team have been studying how PdM systems are being adopted in industry – and how they can be improved: “Sensing has been in industry longer than trendy terms such as IoT.” The vibration sensors that have previously been used, stretching back to the 1950s, in some cases, are wire-based sensors and quite expensive, which meant that they were used sparingly. McCann added: “What we’re seeing at the moment is the lower cost price per sensor and the delivery mechanism has become wireless – which means you can place sensors in more awkward and difficult-to-get-to areas. Technology is now more fitting to be able to place sensors around and monitor these kinds of systems. And the cost benefit now is much more favourable to ship these systems with the sensors in them.” Indeed, an analysis of the sensor market by IC Insights, a US-based semiconductor market research company shows that average selling prices (ASPs) on sensors have fallen from around $0.66 in 2010 to $0.40 in 2015. The report also forecasts that sales of microelectromechanical system (MEMS)-based sensors will rise by 5.5% to $6.1 billion in 2020. Will the nature of sensing change? Sensors aren’t the only game in town, however, as Professor McCann (Imperial College, London) explained: “Our research is looking at alternatives, because placing physical sensors is expensive. You have to place them, they only measure the area in which they're placed and not the whole machine, and they also have to maintain them and ship all that data back. “We’re looking at an alternative, which is throwing radio frequency signals through [machines] from afar. It's the equivalent of flooding it with your normal, everyday wifi network, reading how the network behaves, and then analysing how the machine behaves because of that. We call it CogniSense, or sensing without sensors, because you’re not placing a sensor on the actual device itself.” CogniSense is a remote condition-monitoring radio- frequency device and has been devised and patented by leading researchers from Imperial College London . This technology can obtain more data than could ever be achieved with point-based sensors. The thinking behind CogniSense is that any physical movement produces a recognisable footprint on a Radio-Frequency (RF) signal interacting with it. If a system can therefore transmit a radio signal and detect the response, a signal corresponding to the motional speeds of the components can be captured and analysed. This can point to the condition of the machine. Correctly calibrated, Imperial’s researchers think that CogniSense could be capable of determining the overall condition of a machine at a system-level. And not only that: at a component-level, different internal rotational speeds (e.g. bearings) that affect the system integrity could also be monitored. Laboratory experiments so far have involved monitoring home appliances such as ventilation fans. The measured speeds correspond with those captured by a laser tachometer with 100% accuracy. This has been achieved from a distance of several meters, and even through walls. The aim of this technology is to reduce machine downtime by providing a single low-cost device to monitor numerous non-instrumented machines, or monitoring machines that might already be instrumented, but aren’t connected to a digital network able to transmit the data. “The other advantage is that when you put a sensor on a device, it's only measuring in its local area, pinpointing the area it’s attached to or focused on: it's not the whole machine,: McCann added. “What systems like CogniSense are looking at is more volumetric: it's the whole system, and the interactions between the components and the whole system that it’s measuring, so it’s able to understand the coupling in the system and all those kinds of things. It’s getting you much more information, as well as being more convenient and super-low in cost.” What are the applications of predictive maintenance? With developments such as this, PdM is already becoming more subtle than just predicting machinery failures and helping to plan maintenance. IBM’s Claessens told us: “People have moved beyond simply ‘This machine is going to break down in the next 48 hours’: it’s about predicting service degradation. So there’s going to be a service degradation in a part of the equipment and these are the actions you can take to prevent it from happening. One of the outcomes could be the breakdown of the equipment, but it could be something else: it could be a change in the operation parameters or so on.” While manufacturing production lines might be the most obvious application of PdM technology, it’s also becoming widely adopted in other industries. Professor Ross McAree, head of the School of Mechanical and Mining Engineering at the University of Queensland, explained how the mining industry is also seeing the benefits of predictive maintenance. He explained how PdM is currently being used in a wide range of applications throughout the mining industry, helping the efficiency of numerous operations. “Rotating machinery such as pumps are routinely instrumented and measurements taken to detect emergent faults, such as bearing failure. Large fixed plant, especially crushers and grinders, are critical to production and are instrumented to make predictions of maintenance. For at least 10 years most Australian draglines have been fitted with ‘duty monitors’ that predict weld failures on boom, using a mix of fatigue models and strain measurement. The large diesel engines used to power trucks and excavators are also heavily instrumented and measurements used to identify emergent failures, while conveyor lines are instrumented to detect bearing failures using vibration signatures.” Safety is another important use case for predictive maintenance in the mining industry. Claessens said: “We did a study of the coal-mining industry in China, where 3,000 people are killed every year and 80% of these deaths were caused by equipment failure. So there’s a clear connection to a safety use case for predictive maintenance.” The agricultural industry is another where machinery such as harvesters is starting to incorporate sensors that monitor key areas of the machine. The sensor data is transmitted via a mobile phone network and cloud computing to a central maintenance service, which can analyse the data to detect irregularities and predict problems in advance. Agriculture is becoming increasingly mechanised. Machines such as harvesters and tractors are now commonplace, especially on large farms; automated irrigation systems are vital to operation in many parts of the world; and even robots that can kill weeds growing among crops, top up fertiliser levels and pick crops are currently being developed and tested. With all these becoming increasingly important to modern farming operations, the need for PdM systems will rise. This isn’t just about increasing the efficiency of machinery, though: PdM technology could play a vital part in the future of the world’s population. As McCann said: “Farming and agriculture also use these systems, not just for the machinery, but also for making the most of the land without having to put resources into it. “That’s important because we’re going to have to feed a lot more people by 2050 and we don’t have enough acres of arable land on the planet to do that, so we’re going to have to become a lot more efficient with the land. These kinds of systems are helping with that as well.” Next steps for predictive maintenance Some industries are still in the early stages of the technology’s adoption, however. Claessens said: “From an owner operator perspective, we’re in the proof of concept or pilot stage. I haven’t seen industrial clients go for a full-blast, end-to-end implementation of predictive analytics around maintenance. People are playing around with the technology. “Where you do see programmes that are ongoing and end-to-end is in OEMs. If you look at a company such as Kone, the elevator company, that’s a good example. They have one million assets around the world and they’re retrofitting sensors and data capture equipment. From their perspective, they have a strong driver, from a business standpoint, to implement this technology end-to-end for two reasons. Number one: they want to keep control of the maintenance and spare parts revenue stream, because it’s typically where they earn their margin. And at the same time they want to explore new revenue streams, so can they start providing services to their clients, while they’re getting control of all the data.” Mining has been further ahead of the curve, though. “Approximately 40% of the costs of mining are associated with management of the assets and so the need for predictive maintenance technology has been long understood and the benefit is significant,” McAree explained. And as it’s further down the road, mining is also looking at more advanced systems. “What we are seeing a lot of at present is people talking about using machine learning methods based on big data for fault prediction and there is some enthusiasm for this for a couple of reasons,” McAree added. “First, machine learning algorithms give a fresh perspective to a long-term need. Second, there is a lot of data collected from which little value is derived – its collection is a cost without a clear benefit at present, so machine learning methods offer the prospect of a benefit. These efforts are still in their infancy and, while there have been some wins, there is still a long way to go before we see a step change in practice.” Is AI a technology that can help? Claessens also sees artificial intelligence (AI) as the next stage in PdM’s evolution and expects that the next generation of analytics solutions around asset reliability will be based on the emerging cognitive AI. He said: “As an example, you get a signal from data – sensor data or any suite of data that allows you to build robust models around asset reliability – so the sensor will tell you that in this part of the equipment there’s a service degradation likely to happen in the next three days. The data will be picked up by an AI module that would read into anything that’s available, both within the owner operator’s data suite or outside it, to identify a probable cause of this service degradation and give you a recommendation for the actions to fix it. “Service supervisors can look at this and they’ve got a list of service orders to schedule, this is a profile of the service technician that they need, and these are the spare parts and tools they’ll need to fix it. So you’ll always have a fix in the first instance.” Initial applications of machine learning point to numerous benefits for companies employing it for PdM. Better availability and reliability of assets is certainly one that companies will discover, as is reduced capital expenditure (improved asset availability means fewer assets are needed). There should also be lower operational expenses, thanks to fewer maintenance hours and replacement parts. Estimates from McKinsey (in its 2017 report Smartening up with Artificial Intelligence (AI) -What’s in it for Germany and its Industrial Sector?) suggest that AI-enhanced predictive maintenance can lead to savings of 20% or more on maintenance costs for key systems. McCann agrees that AI will have an important role to play: “To be able to hone in on a single component, you need to be able to understand what that component is, how to identify it in the big signal coming in and pinpoint it within all the signal mess. To be able to do that, we need to be able to use machine learning. “So in the future, we can imagine using AI if the machine wants to self-recalibrate or have a notion of reconfiguration that it does itself, based on its own results coming in.” Solutions such as predictive maintenance will only become more important to the smooth running of numerous industries, as the amount of technology used in industry increases further. These industries will also receive a wide range of benefits, from lower costs to increased safety. And with the introduction of AI, predictive maintenance is an area that can only help industry become more efficient and productive. As businesses evolve, so does the world of lubricants. A machine that can predict faults also has the potential to predict lubrication contaminations, thus helping reduce machine downtime and increasing the lifetime of your products. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. There is a simple lesson that organisations can learn from Germany’s Autobahn. A unique network of highways, it boasts the only stretches of road in the world that have no maximum speed limit. On certain sections, drivers are free to choose their own velocity. Many people wonder how you can drive safely while travelling at much faster speeds. The answer is that not only are there defined rules for driving on the Autobahn but the motorists using the roads are used to operating within that system. If you were to remove blanket speed limits on roads in other countries, you could not hope to achieve the same results. Even with the infrastructure in place, the people using it would not be immediately ready to adapt to the new system. To prevent the roads from becoming less safe than before would require not just the innovation but also a change in culture and mindset to support it. This is a concept that Audrey Tang, Digital Minister of Taiwan, (who lived in Germany when they were 11) also applies to their leadership philosophy. To them, the spirit of High Velocity Leadership aligns with open-source practices – with different groups collaborating to create solutions at speed and in a way that delivers better shared outcomes for all involved. “The basic idea is that, instead of treating people as users, treat them as co-creators,” they say. In that way, you can more easily look at all sides of a problem and adapt the solution quickly to meet everyone’s needs based on their input. So, how can leaders remove the speed limit on innovation? And how has the pandemic shaped the need for more open-source thinking? Reducing risk and saving time for everyone The building blocks of Audrey’s leadership philosophy were set way back in 1995 when they dropped out of high school at 14 to focus on researching the burgeoning ‘world wide web’. Wanting to devote 16 hours a day – not just eight – to exploring the phenomenon of swift trust online, they spoke to their school director about the move. “She thought for a moment and said, okay, tomorrow you don’t have to come to school anymore – focus on your research,” explains Audrey. “I think that’s leadership, right? It was risky because we didn’t have experimental school laws in place at the time. But she basically said she would absorb the risk for me.” A crucial element in this for Audrey is how the school director was not only able to reduce the risk of dropping out but also save their time by removing the need to go to school for eight hours a day, five times a week. To them, this is the essence of leadership – reducing risk and saving time for everyone involved. “When I say saving time and reducing risk, I mean, doing so across the board,” says Audrey. “So, saving time for everyone; not making trade-offs where you reduce risk for one person while increasing it for someone else. This has variously been described as empathetic leadership or servant leadership, but I wouldn’t add any specific adjective to it. For me, leadership means looking at all sides of a situation and acting accordingly.” Co-creating an effective pandemic response Possibly the biggest test of Audrey’s approach to leadership arrived with the COVID-19 pandemic. As Digital Minister for Taiwan, they have been working with three of the major pandemic prevention systems within the country – the mass distribution of personal protective equipment (PPE), SMS-based check-in for contact tracing, and vaccine appointment reservation. “We learned from public health experts that, along with social distancing and handwashing, we needed to reach 75% mask usage to avoid community spread of the virus,” says Audrey. “But, at that time, we were producing fewer than two million medical-grade masks a day for a population of 23 million people. So, masks had to be rationed.” With limited resources, equity of distribution became a key talking point. It is why masks were quickly rationed, rather than made available for purchase. People were told to go to their local pharmacies where they could receive two masks a week. And, as production ramped up, this increased to three per week then nine every two weeks until the supply of masks was plentiful enough to end the rationing. The challenge of this for Audrey was how to look at all sides of the problem and effectively communicate a solution that worked for everyone. “One example of taking all sides was the need to reduce the workload for pharmacists by making sure that they didn't have to answer calls from the public asking whether masks have been replenished,” they explain. “So, we communicated to people that the masks were there to protect themselves from their own unwashed hands – appealing to their own self-interest to encourage positive behaviours and make the full use of masks when they weren’t freely available.” Another challenge was making sure that people who could not reach their pharmacies during opening hours. This saw an adaptation to the distribution approach, with members of the public becoming co-creators based on their different needs. This then led to collaboration with people in the economic sector (such as convenience store owners) to widen the network of where people could access masks. “What I call this is a people-public-private partnership,” says Audrey. “The open-source community (those working to create the solution) prototypes the norm, the public sector amplifies the norm, and then the economic sector implements the norm – with the norm being mask visibility in this case. I believe it’s a concrete example of leadership where everyone's risk is reduced, and their time is saved.” Creating new global neighbourhoods for innovation The people-public-private partnership that Audrey describes was highly successful in moving at speed to create and adapt solutions to people’s needs during the pandemic. An example of this was the roll-out of the country’s contact-tracing system, which used SMS and QR codes to reduce risk and save time for everyone. Where other countries took weeks and even months to implement, Taiwan had a system up and running in three days. So, how can organisations learn from this? How can leaders adapt the open-source, co-creation philosophy to their own high velocity situations? Audrey’s answer is emphatic. “Don’t lead — follow the people,” they say. “Find communities of open innovation practitioners, engage them and yield the prototyping power of moving safely at speed to them. This allows the leader to become a follower in the initial prototyping stage.” For organisations, this could mean collaborating with suppliers, partners, or even competitors. It is an approach many sectors are already taking as they work together to explore the potential of technologies like AI, machine learning, and distributed ledgers – creating open-source prototypes for everyone to build on and adapt to the needs of what companies commonly see as their end users. Another transformation that leaders must adapt to is how the pandemic has altered their closest working relationships – creating a worldwide community that shares the exact same sense of urgency. “Before the pandemic, leaders often had this idea of an inner circle made up of constituents or stakeholders that they’re accountable to,” they continue. “But the pandemic changed that because, for the first time, everybody feels the same urgency – and this has reconstituted the nature of our neighbourhoods and our in-crowds.” Driving readiness for tomorrow’s high velocity situations The big question for leaders is ‘where do we go from here?’ Many will be focused on the lessons they can learn from the pandemic – and identifying the challenges and opportunities that are likely to remain once the virus finally recedes. In this sense, Audrey sees the pandemic as a useful metaphor for future high velocity scenarios. “There’s no shortage of problems for our new worldwide neighbourhood to tackle,” they say. “I think we’ll still need to address the disinformation crisis, cybersecurity, and climate change of course. It’s increasingly the case that many other issues have the same configuration as a pandemic. We can see that in the example of a computer virus, which is literally a digital pandemic.” However, they are optimistic that, because of this similarity, future high velocity situations will see ready-made innovations able to tackle 80% of the issue at hand. The challenge will be providing that final 20% that relies on local knowledge – something that will require leaders to embrace a more open-source, collaborative way of thinking. It will also require a focus on more equitable results. Much like Germany’s Autobahn network, making the most of the infrastructure means having the control and the culture to do so. As Audrey puts it: “The future is here. It’s just not evenly distributed.” Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. In mathematics, there is a concept known as equilibrium – or the ‘stability point’. This is a point in space where an object, based on its geometric movement, will always return. No matter what force is applied to the object, after a certain time, it will come back to the stability point – regardless of the disruption or deviation to its path. Think of a pendulum swinging back and forth. As soon as its force is spent, it slows to a halt and gradually returns to its starting position – its stability point. As a former engineering student, it is a concept that Carlo Albini, Head of People and Organization Innovability at Enel Group, knows all about. And it is an idea that he believes can apply to businesses as well. Following the disruption of the COVID-19 pandemic, many companies will adapt to change but then return to what they view as their stability point. They will return to old ways of working and business as usual, which Carlo views negatively. For him and the wider Enel Group, there were lessons to be learned from the crisis and ways to move the business forward. “If our future path were to lead back towards the stability point, I wouldn’t want to see the outcome,” says Carlo. “Because the best companies that will transform their business will act to make sure that doesn’t happen.” So, how can leaders prevent their business from returning to their previous stability point? And what lessons has Enel Group learned that will help it lead the way into a transformative digital future? An agile response to a global crisis The pandemic has had a huge impact on the energy and power sector, with lockdowns around the world contributing to a 2% drop in global electricity demand during 2020. As in many other industries, companies faced the challenge of rapidly adopting new digital ways of working. In fact, our latest research shows that 85% of leaders in energy and power say that the COVID-19 crisis has accelerated their digital transformation journey by up to five years. For Carlo and Enel Group, the crisis presented a stern test of the digital journey the company had already set out on in 2016. “Before the pandemic, we had already introduced the concept of agility across the organisation and implemented agile methodologies,” explains Carlo. “For example, when I came to Romania in 2018, one of the first things I did was create an Agile Transformation office – an area dedicated to the dissemination of agile methodologies and an agile culture.” The aim at the time was to increase the organisation’s ability to respond to the ever-shifting needs of the business in an effective way. The focus on agility – supported by digital technologies – meant that, when the pandemic hit, Enel Group was better prepared than most. “The pandemic was a successful test of our agile approach,” says Carlo. “Because in something like two weeks, we were able to shift roughly 55% of our workforce to remote working – with the remaining people dealing with tasks and processes that couldn’t be handled remotely.” In our recent Under Pressure survey of senior figures from across the energy and power sector, we discovered that: 69% say difficulty to digitally transform due to legacy systems will be a key challenge in the next two years. 85% say that COVID has accelerated their digital transformation journey by up to five years. 55% say their budgets for digital transformation increased during the pandemic. 93% believe that responding to the pandemic has unlocked previously untapped potential in their business. 95% believe that the lessons learned during the pandemic will be critical to their future success. Laying the foundations for digital transformation A critical element in Enel Group adapting so swiftly to the crisis was the flexibility of the infrastructure it had in place. An example of this is the fact it had 100% adoption of cloud technologies across the organisation before the pandemic arrived. “The cloud adoption was a real enabler,” says Carlo. “We were able to avoid having to deal with centralised data centres, making it possible to have our people working on remote platforms and collaboration tools from wherever they were.” Carlo is quick to highlight, however, that simply adopting cloud platforms did not make the difference alone. “Another factor was adaptability of our workforce – the managers and our employees,” he explains. Without this, Enel Group might well have struggled to keep its operations running as effectively during the various lockdowns its people have experienced. It demonstrates how digital transformation within a company must be much more pervasive than adopting solutions to address disparate use cases. To adapt to future disruption (and potential crises), Carlo believes that organisations need to put the right conditions in place to enable new ways of working – whether that is flexible infrastructure, an adaptable workforce, or even reshaping business and operating models around digital processes and platforms. Creating a culture to support the transformation journey Another crucial part of successful digital transformation is culture. As well as implementing new technologies across an organisation, it is important to bring people along on the journey – making sure they have everything they need in place to work and collaborate effectively, without feeling isolated. For Carlo, creating an environment built on trust is vital to this. “If you want to advance on your digital transformation journey, you at least need servant leaders in your organisation – people who enable the autonomy of your teams” he says. “But servant leadership is not enough. You have to start from a position where trust is a basic and fundamental value, which then drives the performance and the resilience of all the teams. Trust is the most important element in delivering the performance that we did during the pandemic.” Enel Group’s experience in this area is underlined by the shift in trust that has taken place during the pandemic. According to the most recent Edelman Trust Barometer, business is now the most trusted institution – with 61% of people placing their trust in commercial organisations . And it shows what the outcome can be when companies take on that responsibility. “What we learned is that only by doing things together can we exceed expectations, go beyond our targets, and deliver better results,” Carlo explains. “We have developed the ability to face complex situations, solve complex issues, and make complex decisions together – bringing a diverse range of perspectives into play. It's an incredible value that we cannot lose, and that we have to establish as a building block for the future.” This all serves to highlight the fact that a company’s digital transformation journey is about far more than making the right technology choices. It is also about creating a culture that is able to sustain and empower that journey. Going beyond skills to bridge the digital gap As well as creating a culture built on trust, organisations need to make sure their workforces have the skills needed to drive digital transformation. This is supported by our latest research, which found that eight out of ten leaders in the energy and power sector see a lack of in-house skills and expertise as a barrier to their transformation journeys. However, a key lesson for Enel Group around employee retention has shaped their recruitment behaviour when looking to fill a gap for digital skills. “We’re part of a huge number of companies struggling to attract talent,” says Carlo. “But, if you just go looking for skills, you’ll reach a second level of the fight, which is how to retain people who are used to moving from one company to another.” After exploring this challenge, Enel Group struck upon a different strategy – one that focused on the attitudes, rather than skills. “We asked ourselves shall we look strictly the people who already have the skills we need, or at the people with the attitudes that would help them engage with our purpose, our challenges, and our projects over the long term,” says Carlo. “We’ve found it so much better to have this focus, along with an understanding of how best to access the necessary digital skills – either internally or working with external partners,” he explains. “Otherwise, you’ll be in a continuous fight to retain people – especially in countries where the labour market is more dynamic.” Enel Group is also looking at the opportunity to leverage its digital journey to widen its geographical horizons when looking to recruit – taking advantage of the wider talent pool it can access when people are able to work remotely. Taking advantage of untapped digital potential From technological enablers to organisational culture, there are many ways for leaders to maintain (and make the most of) the acceleration in digital transformation across their organisations as they recover from the pandemic. The critical lesson though is not to return to their stability point. Our latest research shows that 93% of sector leaders believe that their response to the pandemic has unlocked previously untapped potential in their business. This means there is an opportunity to achieve an even better digital future, which is exactly what Enel Group will be working towards. “It’s important to look at how we responded during the different phases of the pandemic,” Carlo concludes. “If you look at it not as a crisis, but as an opportunity to learn, the pandemic is an important accelerator. We have the chance now to create the environment to build on that response and do it better, in an augmented way. Ultimately, it would be nice not to lose what we’ve learned over the last 18 months.” Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Embedding sustainability into the lives of consumers around the world might not be as easy as flicking a switch. However, rethinking our approaches to the basic materials that go into everyday actions, such as turning on the lights, can make a big difference to global decarbonisation efforts. Take copper, for instance. When you cook a meal, there is a good chance your pans are made with copper. When you look at your phone to check your messages, that is a swipe right for copper. And when you switch on the lights, copper wiring carries the electricity that powers almost everything you do. Copper is essential for everyday life and growth, yet few people think about the value that copper brings to society. For example, copper is a key product for renewable electricity generation and distribution, for the electrification of transportation (in all its forms) and for other innovative and emerging technologies such as smart grids and the hydrogen economy. Laura Brooks, Group Head of Sustainability Integration & Impact for Anglo American, however, understands the role that the products delivered by the mining industry can play in driving decarbonisation – from renewable energy solutions to the digital connectivity that empowers greater digital access for society. This is just one element of what Laura refers to as Anglo American’s ‘full-impact decision-making’ process that informs the company’s strategic direction. It is also why she disagrees with the notion that there is a paradox between decarbonisation and growth. “We can create a cleaner, greener world through the products we produce, and that's exciting,” says Laura. “So, I don't think that there needs to be a paradox between growth and sustainability. I think they can both be a positive force for driving our decarbonisation efforts.” Bringing a values-driven response to high-velocity situations Mining would certainly fit the mould of a what the World Economy Forum dubbed a paradox industry, looking to increase its output while simultaneously improving its environmental impact. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a marked effect on production, which decreased by about 42% in 2020 due to a fall in demand and workforce restrictions according to McKinsey. This does not seem to have halted the need or desire within the industry to pursue decarbonisation efforts. According to our latest research, seven out of ten mining leaders say that the pandemic has accelerated their sustainability journey by up to five years – with 45% indicating that the budgets in this area have increased during the crisis. The industry response aligns with Anglo American’s reaction to the pandemic. “We asked ourselves quickly, what is going to be our COVID-19 response?” says Laura. “The term ‘High Velocity Leadership’ is exactly right because it really does describe what was happening. People were making decisions very quickly, but what I saw at that time was that the decisions were also driven by purpose and values.” This demonstrates Anglo American’s full-impact approach to decision-making, with thoughts swiftly turning to the company’s wider responsibility as a global leader. “So, in terms of our pandemic response, we were thinking about how we support the 100,000 people we have working globally; asking what we need to do to protect them,” explains Laura. “But then, very quickly the conversation stepped outside our fence line to look at how we support the communities in which we operate.” These values-driven responses to the pandemic highlight how organisations across the industry were keen to live up to their wider social responsibilities, even during such an unpredictable time for their businesses. In our recent survey of senior figures from across the mining industry, we discovered that: 59% see decarbonisation as an urgent priority for their business and already have plans in place to approach it 69% say that the pandemic has accelerated their decarbonisation efforts by up to five years 45% say their budgets for decarbonisation and sustainability increased during the pandemic 45% view sustainability as a responsibility to their communities 78% see sustainability as important to new business opportunities and bids The importance of embedding sustainability into an organisation A vital element in how Anglo American was able to focus on its social and environmental impact during a time of crisis was the fact that sustainability was already embedded into the heart of the organisation and its decision making. In this way, the company’s decarbonisation efforts were part of its everyday operations with each site and Group Function having five year sustainability plans that are embedded into core business planning – meaning continued progress regardless of external pressures. “In March 2018, we launched our Sustainable Mining Plan that sets out deliberately ambitious commitments for 2030,” says Laura. “These commitments were approved at board level. But it’s not just about driving the delivery of a particular goal; it's also focused on how we embed sustainability across the business. For this reason, I’m particularly focused on our leadership and our culture – to ensure that sustainability is embedded in the decisions we take across the business every day and making sure that we are driving the delivery of goals in an integrated way.” Laura explains how this works in practice: “Let’s say we want to drive a climate change initiative with some new technology that could have an unplanned impact on job creation or water security. […] We have to make sure that we take a full-impact approach to those decisions and look at our commitments in a holistic way.” This integrated, full-impact approach means that wherever sites are – from Brazil to Australia – sustainability is not a separate plan sitting to one side of the business. Sustainability commitments, including decarbonisation efforts, are built into every area of the business from discovery to marketing. “This is absolutely critical and fundamental,” says Laura. “Because the business activities (such as drilling) are happening in the mining space. So, unless sustainability is connected to business activities, you're not going to understand what's going to drive your sustainability impact – positive or negative.” The ground-level impact of full-impact decision-making Anglo American’s full-impact decision-making approach lays out a clear blueprint for making sure that decarbonisation is a central element of its operations at a group and site level. But what is its impact on the ground? Laura gives the example of the thought process that goes into the automation of a site’s drilling equipment in Northern Cape, South Africa. “Our Sishen iron ore mine introduced automated drilling, which provides us with the benefit of improved energy and water efficiency”, she explains. “Going further, you're also moving people from frontline work to a control room. So, there are safety benefits too. And we found that it helped us from an inclusion and diversity perspective, with roles now much more accessible to all genders and people with disabilities. Those were all the upsides of that one decision to automate drilling.” There was also an assessment on the potential impact on jobs. This is, again, where the full-impact approach comes into play. “Instead of relying on the automated drilling maintenance company from Johannesburg, we were able to upskill a local supplier to carry out that maintenance and create new jobs in the community”, explains Laura. “This is why we call it full-impact. We think about the full primary and secondary consequences to make intentional decisions that mitigate any risks or negative impacts associated with them.” Pulling business levers to deliver on decarbonisation goals At the site level, we can see the positive impact of full-impact decision-making. However, a lot of work has gone into embedding sustainability values, including decarbonisation and social impact, into the organisation from the top down. “Before we get these integrated plans into place, we had to think about how we change our culture, our mindset, and our leadership,” says Laura. “We’ve had to understand the levers we can use to drive sustainability across the business. For example, making sure sustainability is included in quarterly performance reviews.” It helps that, in Laura’s experience over the last 20 years, sustainability has shifted, and become a non-negotiable – and that allows her to draw on senior leaders for their influence to underline the importance of building sustainability into the company’s day-to-day operations. “Our senior leaders have been very influential in shifting the mind-set. Our CFO clearly articulates investor expectations on sustainability, and the CEO of our Marketing business lays out customer and end consumer expectations for sustainability,” she explains. This underpins the commercial importance of sustainability for the business. “So, if we're sending our iron to a steel maker and that steel maker is selling their steel to car manufacturers who are selling cars to end consumers with sustainability expectations, it's not just about those very local impacts; it's about how these different stakeholder pressures are coming down the value chain.” Resolving the paradox in mining Ultimately, Anglo American’s full-impact approach supports Laura’s assertion that driving sustainability and growth in mining does not necessarily result in a paradox – even in high velocity situations like the pandemic. From her perspective, there is no paradox between sustainability and growth. We can grow sustainably by understanding the full impact of our decisions. If anything, with three-quarters of mining leaders viewing decarbonisation as vital to new business opportunities and bids, a focus on sustainability will only become more critical in the coming years. Whether it is the lifecycle effects of copper bringing light to houses around the world, or the workforce changes that come with the automation of the machines that drive your business, it is time to think about the full impact of your operations on the environment and your responsibility to the communities around you. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Under Pressure: Leading in Paradox Industries During a crisis, effective, innovative leadership can be the difference between failure and success. Download our brand-new report – “Under Pressure: Leading in Paradox Industries” – and learn: The formula behind the “high velocity leadership” model, and why it is so successful. How the pandemic altered the decision-making process of senior leaders from some of the world’s largest firms. Why the last 18 months have accelerated business plans for digital transformation and decarbonisation. The critical areas businesses – and their leaders – need to focus on as they look to address their next big challenges. Thriving in high velocity environments: what leaders can learn from the pandemic Removing the speed limit on innovation. How Enel Group’s response to the pandemic set them up for a brighter digital future Going beyond the technology to drive digital transformation. How Anglo American created an integrated approach to decarbonisation in high velocity situations Full-impact decision-making – a lightbulb moment for sustainability. How MachineMax brought a start-up mentality and outside perspective to long-standing industries Decoding the data behind innovative leadership. Do ‘paradox industries’ actually need a resolution? Why companies are focusing on an integrated approach to sustainable growth. Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Almost there! Please fill out your details to download our “Under Pressure: Leading in Paradox Industries” report. In 2013, a group of European professors set out on a study into innovation.1 The hypothesis Nikolaus Franke and his colleagues were testing: are industry-specific issues solved most effectively by those within the industry or by those from distant sectors that share a similar need? The study saw the team ask three seemingly disparate groups – roofers, carpenters and inline skaters – for ideas on how to improve the design of safety gear used in the other professions. With little knowledge of their contemporaries’ specific requirements or restrictions, but a shared experience of protective equipment, the study showed that each group was more effective at generating new solutions for the other professions than they were for their own. While deep industry knowledge is often a sought-after commodity, these findings suggest it can also lead to industry experts sometimes not being able to see the forest for the trees. A concept that Shweta Saxena, MachineMax CEO, is intimately aware of, having started her career in sales before falling “by accident” into product development. It was there, while working for computer technology leaders Dell, that her manager saw something that she was perhaps too close to, to see herself. “There was a need at the time for some product management expertise,” Shweta recalls, “but there was no one to fill the role. My boss actually pushed me to fill the gap – they had obviously seen something in me that I couldn’t see in myself at that time, which was a useful way of thinking about product development and how to make teams work around those products.” Curating an outside-in perspective And then, as a leader herself some years later, Shweta applied this very same mode of thinking: “my other co-founder, Amit, and I were conducting some ethnographic research around the construction and mining industries,” she says, “when we were surprised to find that there was no single telematics provider that could deliver data for all machines in one single platform. And that’s ultimately how MachineMax was born.” Introducing an outside perspective is something that many successful leaders do when a team or industry is perhaps too close to the project or too entrenched in certain ways of working or thinking. Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, for example, habitually hired people from outside of the computing profession, leading to a diverse collection of musicians, poets, artists, zoologists and historians coming together to develop the first Macintosh computer.2 For Shweta, it was a blend of her serial entrepreneurialism, mathematics and product development background, and passion for digital transformation that led to working with Shell on the MachineMax project. “One of the key things happening at Shell right now is that they are looking beyond hydrocarbons, at what the future might look like for Shell,” she explains. “So, our reasoning with MachineMax was: data is the new oil, right?” Understanding the power of data may not seem a ground-breaking idea to some, but for many well-established industrial sectors, this kind of change can be slower to take place. “Innovation happens at different speeds for incumbents versus start-ups,” suggests Shweta, “To use a favourite analogy of mine: the start-up is your dolphin – very nimble and quick to move. Whereas, the larger sectors are more similar to a whale – it will take a little time to get going, but once it does start to move, it can quickly gather a pretty huge head of steam.” Why partnership is the new leadership When approaching a traditionally resistant industry with a potentially disruptive technology, there are several hurdles to overcome. For aspiring leaders in this situation, a critical starting point is to identify a need, before having a proof of concept that can meet that need. Shweta explains: “Fragmentation happens at every level in these industries, with most companies using mixed fleets of equipment. However, businesses still require 100% visibility into their fleet, which can lead to reports having to be manually stitched together in some cases. As a universal telematics device, we therefore achieved product market fit quite easily.” However, meeting a primary need alone is not enough in today’s highly competitive market. Any viable product needs to also be extremely reliable, particularly when being used in a field – like construction or mining – that depends on reliability to survive. Fortunately, an initial minimum viable product (MVP) can help to encourage early adoption. The right approach – including customer-centric development and collaborative relationship building – can then help turn these early adopters into influential co-creators. “You have to cross this chasm at some point,” says Shweta, “where you move from an MVP to a desirable and mass-ready product. And for us, having had this start-up mentality in the way that the MVP was created, it was adopted very quickly, with early adopters then working together with us on future iterations.” As modern solutions become more geared towards solving societal problems – just as MachineMax helps to improve fleet efficiency and reduce emissions – leadership becomes less about winning. Rather, it is increasingly about bringing others along the journey with you, through engagement, facilitation and co-creation. Learning by doing and leading by example Any effective study, invention or innovation begins with a hypothesis. But it’s only when this hypothesis is tested in real-world conditions that the project can be deemed a success or failure. Shweta agrees: “With MachineMax, we took a Double Diamond approach. After identifying the customer pain point, we then started thinking of as many solutions as possible, allowing us to narrow down on a specific hypothesis. Then, we started our operational testing to see if the solution would work in real-life conditions.” The Double Diamond approach was popularised by the British Design Council in 2005 and involves a four-stage process: Discover: Research into and around the problem to ascertain a key insight Define: Narrow down the focus through further exploration Develop: Provide a range of potential answers, drawing inspiration from various sources Deliver: Test the solutions on a small scale and receive feedback from co-creators This particular approach ultimately concludes with some form of real-world testing or what Shweta terms “learning by doing”. Something that, given the impact on industry during the pandemic, leaders are becoming more practised in. This mentality shift has trickled down to sustainability actions too, with industry leaders gearing up to the change that is increasingly being demanded by their employees, their shareholders and of course, wider society. “The best leaders have understood this shift,” says Shweta. “They are not just performing lip service. They are actually going ahead, taking charge and making the changes required. I have seen certain construction companies, for example, that now talk about a business vision from the top-down that is linked to sustainable energy.” Sustainable growth requires a change in mindset Difficulty arises, however, when an industry is caught between the seeming paradox of having to increase output to meet societal needs, and needing to reduce environmental impact to meet industry regulations. Though a definitive solution to this issue has yet to be established, the sudden jolt to the system that the pandemic provided is perhaps exactly what industries needed to be able to more clearly see the positive impact that a sustainability agenda can have on other areas of business. And, as Shweta explains, positive results can soon initiate a snowball effect: “We’ve seen companies take action on the low-hanging fruit – reducing fuel, idling and emissions figures – before then looking toward the next step for sustainability, which is understanding what this data really means and how it can be used to consistently improve operations.” But, just as the 2013 study suggests, the biggest change is arguably not in the actions being taken but in the changes in thinking that lead to these actions. “Historically in these industries, anytime there were inefficiencies, there would always be someone complaining about it,” Shweta reflects. “But now things are changing – the noises coming out are a lot more positive. Things have moved from watching the operator to watching the operations, and a lot of that is coming from a change in management perspective. In short, it’s a behavioural change.” Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Former French President Charles De Gaulle once observed that, faced with crisis, the man of character falls back on himself – imposing his own stamp of action, taking responsibility for it, and making it his own. He cannot have known how these words – suited more for times of war than peace – would still ring true more than 40 years after his death as the world comes to terms with a global pandemic. During this unprecedented crisis, organisations around the world have had to demonstrate their character. They have had to act swiftly and decisively. And they have had to take responsibility for their impact on their communities, at a local and a global level. Beyond this, the people leading these organisations have had to learn from their response to the pandemic. Thrust into a high velocity environment, they have been forced to make decisions at speed that will have a significant impact on their business, their stakeholders, and their workforce for years to come. Our latest research, presented in the ‘Under Pressure: Leading in Paradox Industries’ report, explores this journey – investigating the concept of Hight Velocity Leadership and the impact it has had on organisations during the pandemic. Conducted in partnership with Dr Chris Brauer, Director of Innovation at Goldsmiths, University of London and one of the 35 global industrial strategy officers with the World Economic Forum, it also offers a detailed model of the behaviours shown by high velocity leaders, and the lessons organisations can learn as they emerge from the crisis. Within this, the report highlights the importance of effective leadership in what Dr Brauer refers to as ‘paradox industries’ as they look to address the next big challenges around digital transformation and decarbonisation. Has the paradox already been resolved? For Dr Brauer, the thing that leaps out from the research connects directly to the concept of paradox industries. “We went into this study looking to tackle a challenge that is top – or near the top – of the priority list for leaders in these industries,” he says. “It focused on finding ways to ‘resolve the tensions’ implicitly generated by the paradoxes. We wanted to see how leaders handled competing pressures. How to create more energy, but less carbon. Balancing purpose with profit; sustainability with growth; automation with jobs.” However, the research revealed that leading organisations are dealing with the paradox by changing the frame of reference and the way the approach the challenge. And they have done it without the conflict that might be expected from pursuing what appear to be divergent goals. “Instead of focusing on ways to resolve the tensions, leaders are showing us a different way forward,” explains Dr Brauer. “And that is to develop integrated strategies and organisational cultures that unify the pursuit of these separate but symbiotic ideas.” “So, these are not paradoxes in the classic sense of seeking resolution to seemingly contradictory ambitions. Instead, this is about taking grown-up and innovative approaches to dualism,” he continues. “Just as organisations need to be working on the next s-curve while they play out the current one, so too must they work to achieve sustainable growth, carbon-neutral energy, and purposeful profitability simultaneously.” These findings are supported by the survey of leaders within the report. This found that nearly half of business leaders increased their investments into digital transformation during the pandemic. At the same time, 41% also say that their budgets around decarbonisation and sustainability increased. A ‘full-impact’ approach to integration The sentiment Dr Brauer outlines above is echoed strongly in the discussions that formed the basis for the leaders’ origin stories featured in the report. For example, Laura Brooks, Group Head of Sustainability Integration & Impact for Anglo American, highlights how their company takes a ‘full-impact’ approach to decision-making across its mining operations. “It’s fascinating how their full-impact assessment process integrates those elements of tension,” says Dr Brauer. “So, when they automate their drilling equipment, it doesn’t just trigger unintended consequence of job losses. Rather, they are proactive and wherever possible workforces are reskilled and deployed in advance or alongside the introduction of new technologies. It is about integrated assessment on social, sustainability, workforce, environmental factors and impact. And this drives efficiency and productivity for the operation, technologies and people.” Another interesting area that this full-impact view of a business touches upon is the impact throughout the value chain of the products created by industries such as mining. “Laura talked to us about the story behind copper and its value to society, from its role in renewable energy to internet connectivity,” says Dr Brauer. “She believes that it’s a story that needs to be told because there’s an opportunity to create a more sustainable world through the products they produce. She also feels that there doesn’t need to be a paradox between growth and decarbonisation –they can both contribute to sustainability.” Increasing safety at higher speeds During these discussions, Dr Brauer also spoke to Audrey Tang, Digital Minister of Taiwan, about their experiences of tackling the pandemic and constructing social configurations that can overcome these apparent paradoxes. “At the heart of their philosophy to tackling the pandemic in Taiwan is another paradox-like polarity of 'increasing speed while reducing risk' in everything they do,” says Dr Brauer. “And Audrey gave us the ideal metaphor for this, reflecting on their experiences of Germany’s Autobahn system to talk about how we can increase safety while driving at higher and higher speeds.” This highlights the thinking behind what organisations need to take away from their experiences of high velocity conditions during the pandemic. In Audrey’s case, leaders were presented with an opportunity to remove the speed limits on innovation, but everything had to feed into increasing – not decreasing – health and safety for the public. If leaders aren’t comfortable driving forward at high speeds with low risk, they can lead by following innovators in their ecosystems, harnessing the power of the collective through what Audrey calls ‘people-public-private’ partnerships as they look to develop integrated solutions to their most pressing problems. For Audrey, it’s about integrating government, industry and civic innovation and learning from the experiences of others, from local to global. “Referring to a new worldwide urgency created by the pandemic, Audrey points to how we’ve all become time-zone travellers as part of a worldwide community,” says Dr Brauer. “They also compare our progression through this high velocity situation to a software release cycle, describing how the other major challenges organisations face into the near future have the same configuration as the pandemic. It all highlights the need for organisations to work with a larger global neighbourhood to create integrated solutions.” Learning the lessons of high velocity situations For many companies, the pandemic has accelerated their efforts to resolve the paradoxical tensions in their industry. This is certainly the case for global energy and power leader Enel Group. Talking to Carlo Albini, Enel Group’s Head of People and Organization Innovability, revealed how the company was already seeking to find integrated pathways for combining innovation and sustainability; starting with the creation of Carlo’s new role – designed to bring together leadership of integrated sustainability and innovation goals in one place. “It was interesting to hear from Carlo about how Enel Group was making sure it could build on the lessons it learned during the pandemic – or, as he put it, design the future,” says Dr Brauer. “Within this, he spoke of augmenting the actions the company was already taking naturally, sometimes without being aware of it. For him, it was important to take a retrospective look at the organisation’s performance during this high velocity situation and improve upon the positive aspects.” It is yet another example of how companies are not looking to ‘resolve’ competing priorities and are, instead, exploring ways to achieve the separate goals as shared and integrated ambitions. “Carlo effectively said that, if they are smart enough as an organisation, they can do everything – from tackling climate change to achieving gender equality” says Dr Brauer. “Leaders recognise the need to learn from the current high velocity situation, as well as the opportunities they have to take those lessons into tackling their next big challenge in an integrated way.” A recipe for tackling the next big challenge The next step for organisations will be to demonstrate how their integrated approaches lead to them achieving the parallel goals of growth and sustainability. For leaders, this means identifying the elements that have been critical to their pandemic response and building on these foundations. ‘Under Pressure: Leading in Paradox Industries’ explores this in detail with the High Velocity Leadership model. Laying out a blueprint for leaders to follow, it helps them to better understand their performance and how they can prepare for their next big challenge. “During the study, we identified a set of leadership drivers that have played a critical role in every company’s pandemic response,” says Dr Brauer. “These provide a kind of recipe for leaders who are capable of designing, implementing and measuring integrated impact plans that don't so much 'resolve the paradoxes' but come at the challenges from an entirely different perspective – fuelled by their collective exposure to the high velocity conditions of the crisis.” Ultimately, this means that leaders around the world, still raw from the experience of the crisis, are shifting their focus. The question for every organisation now is: how can they move effectively from paradox resolution to delivering sustainable growth? Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Key Takeaways Across Europe, wind power is set to further expand, with increasing growth on the horizon up until – and potentially beyond – 2050. As wind energy becomes even more efficient, it provides an increasingly promising opportunity for industrial companies looking to decarbonise their operations. Various digital technologies are helping to make wind energy even more attractive to businesses by providing greater operational insights and efficiencies. Organisations must have a clear strategy on how best to integrate and utilise wind power, as there is no uniform business model. This highlights the importance of engaging industry experts, like WindEurope and other industry bodies, in order to educate businesses on how best to capitalise on the efficiency of wind power. Giles Dickson is the Chief Executive Officer of WindEurope, a position he’s held since 2015. WindEurope is the voice of the European wind industry. It represents the whole value chain of onshore and offshore wind across Europe and has more than 400 members. It engages Governments and other stakeholders on policy and regulation. It organises industry exhibitions, conferences and workshops. And it coordinates publicly-funded R&D in wind. Dickson is also Chairman of the independent Advisory Council of ENTSO-E, the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity. From 1992 to 2008 he was a civil servant in the UK Government, working mostly on European affairs. From 2008 to 2015 he worked for the French engineering company Alstom where he was Vice-President for Global Public Affairs. Renewable energy is no longer a thing of the future – it’s part of our energy generation and usage each and every day. And with research projecting that renewable energy will deliver more than 60% of the global power mix in 2050, attention is rapidly turning to how companies and countries alike can make this energy generation happen1. At the heart of this equation sits wind energy, which is expected to deliver half of all renewable generation by 2050.2 An industry already seen by many as being firmly within its “golden age”, those working on the frontline believe there is further opportunities to uncover for the sector. This is certainly the opinion of Giles Dickson, CEO of WindEurope, who is increasingly seeing industrial companies – who were perhaps once reluctant to invest in wind – now becoming its biggest proponent, as he explained to us recently. Q: What is the appetite for renewable energy adoption in hard-to-abate sectors? Are there any industries that have seized the initiative in adopting renewable energy sources? A: The perception of renewable energies has changed fundamentally over the past decade. For a long time, energy-intensive industries like steel, cement, aluminium, chemicals, fertilisers, did not like renewables. They felt wind energy was too expansive, that it would mess up the energy system with its “intermittency”. But wind energy has delivered a remarkable cost reduction over the years and is now among the cheapest sources of electricity across Europe, while different areas and countries in Europe – be it Germany (22%), the UK (27%) or Denmark (48%) – are proving that even high shares of renewables have no significant negative effects on grid stability and electricity supply.3 And now we are starting to see energy-intensive industries knocking at our door, in search of this cheap electricity to help decarbonise their carbon-intensive processes. Take the chemical sector, for example: in a deal with Vattenfall, chemical giant BASF recently bought shares in Europe’s largest offshore wind farm. What this shows is that they are very clear about their ambitions to electrify and about the large amounts of renewable energies they need to do so. Q: How do you view Europe’s wind power journey in comparison to other regions around the world? What lessons do you think can be learned/taught from these differences? A: Europe was the global pioneer in wind energy. We invented the technology and were the first to deploy and scale it up. As a result, we were the first to enjoy its benefits. But, because we were the pioneers, we also bore the lion’s share of the costs involved in developing these technologies; whereas other regions of the world have been able to start deploying wind energy using technology that’s already mature and well-established, and which costs much less now. But there are pros and cons to both. Having been a pioneer, European companies continue to lead the global wind industry, innovating and pushing the limits of wind turbine technology. And this leadership allows Europe to export turbines and technology around the world, further benefiting from the global expansion of wind energy. Q: How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected the progress of wind power? Have initiatives such as NextGenerationEU and “Fit for 55” encouraged the growth of the wind sector? A: Europe built 14.7 GW of new wind farms in 2020.3 This may have been 19% less than what was expected before COVID, but overall, wind energy remained very resilient throughout the pandemic.3 Electricity generation continued seamlessly, and wind energy increased its share in Europe’s electricity mix to 16%.3 More importantly, the financial markets gave a vote of confidence: despite the pandemic, Europe raised €43bn to finance 20 GW of new wind capacity in 2020.4 With strong tailwinds behind it, Europe has therefore set ambitious targets for an accelerated expansion of wind energy. The European Commission’s “Fit-for-55” proposal raises the EU’s renewable energy target from 32% to 40% by 2030. This means the EU will need 451 GW of wind power capacity by 2030, up from 180 GW today, which equates to 30 GW of new wind installation every year between now and 2030. An ambitious goal since, as it stands, we expect to build only 15 GW a year over 2021-25.5 In their National Recovery and Resilience Plans, the European Member States have also earmarked important investments in grid and port infrastructure. These investments are an important condition for the acceleration of Europe’s wind energy across both onshore and offshore. At the end of the day, however, these targets will remain academic if we don’t get permitting right. Across Europe, permitting procedures for new wind energy projects are currently too drawn-out and complex, while there are simply not enough skilled staff to process the increasing number of new permit applications. With this in mind, we are urging the European Commission to streamline the permitting of new wind energy projects. Q: The research Shell undertook in collaboration with Goldsmiths University of London highlighted that the complexity of available decarbonisation options is a major barrier to progress in industry. How can businesses overcome this challenge – and how can they access the external expertise they need to support them on their sustainability journeys? A: Ultimately, corporates want to reduce the impact of their operations on the environment. This is not only so they can minimise their carbon footprint but also because they want to gain a competitive edge by appealing to consumers and investors that increasingly value sustainability. Fortunately, there is a wide range of business models that allow corporates to purchase renewable electricity, with varying levels of complexity, commitment, and costs. The downside of this is that no “one size fits all” model exists. The right business models for a particular company will therefore depend on many factors, including its size, experience, risk tolerance, location and demand profile. Associations can play a key role as clearing houses too, by consulting their members on available decarbonisation strategies and reassuring them of the technical and logistical feasibility of sourcing renewable electricity from wind. Q: How will the digital transformation be instrumental in enabling the wind sector’s ambitions in the future? A: The digital transformation will impact many aspects of wind energy, be it: the automation of manufacturing and production processes; predictive and preventative maintenance; or the modelling and siting of new wind farms. Digital solutions will also enhance electricity flows, allowing for a better matching of renewable electricity generation and actual demand. As a result, the management of electricity grids will benefit from real-time information, which allows for load and demand side management as well as the optimal integration of batteries and other energy storage solutions. Q: Can you give any examples of how new digital technologies are helping to make wind power a more viable choice for industry? For instance, how is digitalisation helping to reduce the LCOE in areas by reducing O&M spend? A: Modern wind turbines include a multitude of digital sensors that provide real time information on electricity production and material condition. This not only reduces the need for human maintenance but allows for precise forecasts that: increase electricity output per turbine; reduce downtimes; and extend the overall lifetime of the assets. For O&M companies, the so-called digital twin technology is a promising development. The idea here is that O&M companies can create an exact copy of a wind turbine, which can then be used to virtually undertake important tests and scenarios, modelling different load factors, wind speeds, wave strengths or erosion levels. In the case of Akselos, using digital twins in the design process contributed to a 30% reduction in the weight of steel used in specific offshore wind foundations – saving resources and decreasing LCOE.6 WindEurope Electric City 2021: Copenhagen, 23-25 November WindEurope Electric City 2021 is a new onshore and offshore wind event, with participants from wind and beyond. The event is designed to widen the industry conversation by sharing ideas with associated sectors like heavy industry, mobility, hybrids, and hydrogen. Get acquainted with Shell experts who will be attending WindEurope Electric City 2021 and join us at Stall C-3-B49 (Hall C3). 1 Energy Transition Outlook, 2020, DNV, https://download.dnvgl.com/eto-2020-download (accessed 13 May 2021) 2 Energy Transition Outlook, 2020, DNV, https://download.dnvgl.com/eto-2020-download (accessed 13 May 2021) 3 Wind energy in Europe 2020 Statistics and the outlook for 2021-2025, 2021, WindEurope Intelligence Platform: https://windeurope.org/intelligence-platform/product/wind-energy-in-europe-in-2020-trends-and-statistics/ (accessed 7 September 2021) 4 Financing and investment trends 2020, 2021, WindEurope Intelligence Platform: https://windeurope.org/intelligence-platform/product/financing-and-investment-trends-2020/ (accessed 7 September 2021) 5 It’s official: The EU Commission wants 30 GW a year of new wind up to 2030, 2021, WindEurope: https://windeurope.org/newsroom/press-releases/its-official-the-eu-commission-wants-30-gw-of-new-wind-a-year-up-to-2030/ (accessed 7 September 2021) 6 Digital Twins Make Jacket Foundations 30 Per Cent Lighter and Cheaper, 2021, offshoreWIND.biz: https://www.offshorewind.biz/2021/07/14/digital-twins-make-jacket-foundations-30-per-cent-lighter-and-cheaper-research/ (accessed 7 September 2021) Shell Lubricants Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. With the construction industry set to grow rapidly over the next decade, it’s vital for businesses to be ambitious in setting out their sustainability targets. Science-based targets are an effective way to reduce a company’s absolute emissions, making sure its approach is robust and its targets are credible. Digital technology will be essential to decarbonisation, from monitoring emissions throughout the value chain to making sustainable interventions across an organisation’s operations. Educating consumers on the benefits of green buildings and products will be a critical element in shaping the overall sustainability of the construction industry in the years to come. Dr Sunita Purushottam Bio Head of Sustainability at Mahindra Lifespaces, Dr Sunita Purushottam has a PhD in Environmental Science & Engineering, alongside more than 20 years of experience in sustainability strategy and environmental consultancy. She has worked with regulatory bodies globally and driven sustainability strategies for companies across construction, real estate, banking, telecoms, automotive, steel, and IT. A member of multiple World Business Council for Sustainable Development working groups, she is also a Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society and a certified GHG emissions quantifier and green building accredited professional (IGBC AP). The Solution For Dr Sunita Purushottam, Head of Sustainability at Mahindra Lifespaces, the answer is to follow the science as she works to help her company achieve carbon neutrality by 2040. That’s why Mahindra Group, has signed up to the global Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).3 And, according to Dr Purushottam, it’s helped the business be more ambitious in what it can achieve on its decarbonisation journey. I think ambition is vital. During the pandemic, people have realised the importance of home. Therefore, we’ve seen an increase in demand, and the industry is expected to grow by around 35% over the next ten years.4 This only increases the need to develop more sustainable approaches. We have to be cognisant of the fact that emissions and impact are linked to the construction process and the use phase of the product we’re designing – whether it’s residential, integrated cities, or industrial clusters. Ambitious routes to sustainability in construction explore electrification of construction processes, and development of high-performance residential buildings integrated with onsite and grid renewable energy. It’s something we’ve been working on for a long time. Since 2014, our entire portfolio spanning residential and industrial projects across India has been green certified – covering the building products themselves as well as the construction. And in 2018, Mahindra Group committed to achieving carbon neutrality across all its companies by 2040. This all feeds back into our sustainability framework and our philosophy that we aim to give back more than we take. We have used that as our guide to fulfilling our mission of transforming urban landscapes by creating sustainable communities. As we build financial capital, we can’t do it at the cost of the planet. Therefore, we work to build ecological, social, and human capital. I think it’s imperative that we rev up our engines and sign up to even more ambitious sustainability goals that push us to create better products for a better world. When working towards carbon neutrality, you really have to reduce your absolute emissions. And SBTi is the mechanism that tells you, according to the science, how to keep your emissions on track. Using this route means we know that the science behind it is robust, and our targets are credible. It introduces an extra level of rigour that helps to shape your actions. For us, the SBTi has affirmed our approach to decarbonisation. One example I would give is around building materials and the role they play in helping us to meet our sustainable development goals. We already have a green supply chain management policy in place, which includes a commitment to sourcing materials from within a 400km radius. We try to source more than 40% of our building materials from this area wherever possible. We’re also always on the look-out for alternative and recycled materials – and we’ve even been able to innovate with plastic reuse in one of our projects, granulating the plastic and creating a road out of those granules. All these elements help us to reduce our waste and emissions, from material creation to transportation. And vital to achieving this is how we aim to work only with third parties and contractors who also place sustainability at the heart of their operations. We have also partnered with a leading research institute that specializes in the fields of energy, environment and sustainable development, to develop open-source green building solutions tailored to Indian climate and use conditions. To meet our science-based targets, we needed to fully understand how the end-to-end lifecycle of construction affects the environment. That’s why we have reworked our standard operating procedures and, over the last two years, completely redone our GHG emissions inventory. We also carried out a detailed assessment of our Scope 3 emissions, putting in place a process that helps us to understand our impact across the value chain. From here, we had to establish a monitoring mechanism. So, we have a digital platform that enables us to engage with sites to gather and analyse the data they generate. This process then allows us to work with sites to handle any compliance issues and identify any initiatives or innovations they can pursue to reduce emissions further. And it’s all linked to our science-based targets, not just because it stores all our sustainability information, but because it also reduces the time and resources needed to carry out our operations. This isn’t the only digital technology we’ve brought into our operations either. We are currently investigating how smart technology and AI can monitor energy and water management behaviour, enabling site teams to better understand consumption demands and make sustainable interventions accordingly. We’re also carrying out experiments with building materials – such as reflective paints – to reduce energy demand and conducting sky-modelling research to understand the impact of natural light on a building. It’s all part of exploring new routes to decarbonisation through digitalisation. Very recently, we also became the first real estate company in India to adopt ‘stay-in-place formwork’ and holographic computing in a large-scale residential development. These technologies herald a new approach to construction; help reduce embodied carbon by cutting down on consumption of resources like sand and water; and lend themselves to alternative building materials such as plastic waste, glass fibres and electronic waste. There’s still plenty of work to do before we reach our goal of carbon neutrality. For example, we need to keep educating our consumers as they will play a huge role in reducing consumption and demand. So, one of the things we’re trying to do is really raise consumer awareness of the benefits of green buildings. And we believe the way to do that is to demonstrate the tangible benefits from a user perspective. With each project, we try to communicate the positive effects of our sustainability interventions on maintenance costs or utility bills. We still have some way to go, though. If you ask people what green homes are, many will likely think of a large site with lots of gardens! I am hopeful for the future though. The conversations around sustainability have changed hugely over the last 20 years and we’ll continue to keep moving in a positive direction. We might still have a long journey ahead, but I’m confident we’ll achieve carbon neutrality with our science-based targets providing the foundation for our innovation. 1 https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/urbandevelopment/overview#1 2 https://www.icis.com/explore/resources/news/2020/09/11/10551509/global-construction-sector-to-grow-35-to-2030-on-urbanisation-softer-pandemic-impact 3 https://sciencebasedtargets.org/ 4 https://www.icis.com/explore/resources/news/2020/09/11/10551509/global-construction-sector-to-grow-35-to-2030-on-urbanisation-softer-pandemic-impact 5 https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2020/11/02/2118265/0/en/Global-Green-Building-Materials-Market-to-Reach-425-4-Billion-by-2027.html 6 https://www.mahindra.com/riseforgood/rejuvenating-the-planet/how-green-is-your-home 7 https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2020/11/02/2118265/0/en/Global-Green-Building-Materials-Market-to-Reach-425-4-Billion-by-2027.html Thriving in high velocity environments: what leaders can learn from the pandemic Removing the speed limit on innovation. How Enel Group’s response to the pandemic set them up for a brighter digital future Going beyond the technology to drive digital transformation. How GE and Veolia North America turned turbine blades into constructions materials How Kellogg’s and Seven Bro7thers Brewing Co created craft beers from unused cereals How Enerkem and Shell converted unrecyclable waste into low-carbon fuels How manufacturing innovation helped SpaceX and Siemens build the world’s first reusable rocket A sustainable manufacturing approach is possible – and your pathway to success does not have to look like anyone else’s If you guessed sustainable manufacturing, then you’d be correct. All four are leading examples of a growing trend to ensure industrial manufacturing processes are designed with sustainability in mind. But, while all four share this common aim of a smaller environmental footprint, their journeys in getting there are hugely different. Which acts as a reminder to businesses around the world that there is more than one way to achieve their sustainability goals, whether that is through: a focus on life cycle thinking; the introduction of circular economies; or simply by gaining a new perspective on longstanding processes. As companies and countries alike search for more renewable energy sources, wind power is becoming an increasingly attractive proposition. And this growing popularity is borne out in the figures, as 2020 marked the highest ever year-over-year growth (53%) for the global wind industry.1 However, the addition of record numbers of new turbines has a knock-on effect for older models that may need to be decommissioned, ultimately leading to an important question: what happens to no-longer-needed turbine components, such as turbine blades? A vital piece when in operation but a frustrating component once retired, turbine blades make up much of the 10-15% of the structure that often can’t be recycled.2 The main issue lies in what these blades are comprised of – composite materials ranging from fibreglass polyester to Kevlar – and how difficult it can be to prevent them from ending up in a land fill. Fortunately, companies like GE and Veolia North America are tackling the issue head-on. Working together, they help recycle blades by shredding and blending the materials until what’s left is material that can be used in the coproduction of Portland cement, a key ingredient of concrete. As well as solving the initial issue at hand, this material could then potentially help cement manufacturers lower their own CO2 emissions by as much as 27% compared to traditional manufacturing processes.3 A perfect example of the circular economy in practice. Multinational food manufacturer Kellogg’s has spent the last few years teaming up with a UK-based brewery to generate a more sustainable use for their unusable food waste. During any manufacturing process, some level of waste is to be expected. The question that is becoming more important in modern society however, is what happens to these waste products? Fortunately, for Kellogg’s and their breakfast cereal products, the Seven Bro7hers brewery provided a timely answer. The discarded grains from their cereal cooking process – which had often been funnelled towards animal feed – now contributes toward an entire range of recycled craft beers, replacing a portion of the wheat grain that the brewery would normally require for the recipe. While many manufacturers often rely on the emerging capabilities of Industry 4.0 technologies – from smart factory features and automation to machine learning efficiencies – this particular example shows the huge impact that strategic collaboration can have. It carries a simple lesson that translates to many industries: sustainable manufacturing doesn’t always require huge financial investment. This change in mindset might actually save you money in the long run. Take industrial lubricants, for example; oil recycling is a practice that is beginning to catch the attention of an increasing number of company leaders since it makes both environmental and economic sense. Four out of 10 CEOs surveyed by Accenture say that sustainability is helping to drive revenue growth.4 Circular economies are proving to be financially lucrative as well as environmentally responsible. What happens when waste materials can’t be recycled in the traditional sense? That is the dilemma that the Varennes Carbon Recycling (VCR) plant – a waste to low-carbon fuels plant commissioned in Québec – is aiming to solve. Once completed, the plant will treat more than 200,000 tonnes of non-recyclable waste and wood waste per year, with an annual production of nearly 125 million litres of low carbon fuels.5 To put that in perspective, it is enough fuel to fill 50 Olympic-sized swimming pools. Because waste is both an operational and economic reality for any industry, managing it is a necessity. However, projects like VCR are proving that businesses can move one step beyond waste management, towards waste repurposing. In this case, the key to this innovation lies in the plant’s technology. Enerkem – a leading Canadian clean tech company – has pioneered a particular technology, which enables the recycling of the carbon and hydrogen contained in non-recyclable waste and wood waste that is otherwise landfilled and burned.6 And thanks to additional collaboration from Shell, Suncor, Proman and Hydro-Québec, the result is an abundance of low-carbon fuels that can contribute to carbon emissions and greenhouse gas reductions throughout the transportation sector. Which, in turn, creates a more sustainable cycle of energy generation and usage. Continuing the theme of collaboration as a catalyst for sustainable manufacturing, is leading aerospace manufacturer SpaceX – a company that is continually looking for any sort of marginal gain that will boost their project effectiveness. A good example is the conception of their Falcon Heavy rocket, a partially reusable heavy-lift launch vehicle that underwent its first successful launch in February 2018, during which it launched a Tesla Roadster into an orbit of Mars, to much fanfare. However, a less talked-about element of Falcon Heavy’s success is how the team at SpaceX landed on a decision regarding its manufacturing process. Similar to the wind turbine blades example, the company chose to adopt advanced composite materials when designing the vehicle, encouraged by the strength-to-weight ratio that this would allow.7 This decision led to the selection of Siemens’ Fibersim software. As an end-to-end design and manufacturing solution, Fibersim helped SpaceX merge both design and manufacturing departments, with collaboration at the core. Collaboration that subsequently allowed SpaceX to retain their fast-paced approach to complex manufacture, while keeping costs and waste low. Ultimately, this model meant SpaceX delivered both a sustainable operation and a successful launch. Four distinct industries, four very different projects, and four examples of how sustainable manufacturing is currently being used to pursue environmental targets while supporting operational and financial success. So, whether your manufacturing responsibilities fall into the realm of wind power, space exploration or any industry in between, you can be safe in the knowledge that a sustainable manufacturing approach is more than possible. You might just need to start thinking outside of the box. 1 Global Wind Energy Council. “Global Wind Report 2021.” GWEC.net. 25 March, 2021. https://gwec.net/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/GWEC-Global-Wind-Report-2021.pdf (accessed 16 September, 2021). 2 WindEurope. “Circular Economy: Blade recycling is a top priority for the wind industry.” WindEurope.org. 12 February, 2021. https://windeurope.org/newsroom/news/blade-recycling-a-top-priority-for-the-wind-industry/ (accessed 16 September, 2021). 3 Chris Noon. “Concrete Benefits: Recycling Old Wind Turbine Blades Could Help Cement Industry Cut CO2 Emissions.” GE. 09 December, 2020. https://www.ge.com/news/reports/concrete-benefits-recycling-old-wind-turbine-blades-could-help-cement-industry-cut-co2 (accessed 16 September, 2021). 4 Accenture. “UNGC – Accenture Strategy CEO Study on Sustainability.” Accenture.com. 24 September, 2019 https://d306pr­­3pise04h.cloudfront.net/docs/publications%2F2019-UNGC-Accenture-CEO-Study.pdf (accessed 16 September, 2020).. 5 Shell. “Shell Invests in Québec’s First Waste to Low-Carbon Fuels Plant.” Shell.com. 05 January, 2021. https://www.shell.com/energy-and-innovation/new-energies/new-energies-media-releases/shell-invests-in-quebecs-first-waste-to-low-carbon-fuels-plant.html (accessed 16 September, 2021). 6 Enerkem. “CAD$875 million biofuel plant in Varennes, Québec Enerkem proposed partnership with Shell, Suncor and Proman with the leadership of the Québec government and support from the Canadian government.” Enerkem.org. 08 December, 2020. https://enerkem.com/news-release/cad875-million-biofuel-plant-in-varennes/ (accessed 17 September, 2021). 7 Gary Mintchell. “Composite Engineering and Manufacturing Solution Helps Build SpaceX.” AutomationWorld. 04 June, 2012. https://www.automationworld.com/home/news/13306980/composite-engineering-and-manufacturing-solution-helps-build-spacex (accessed 19 October, 2021). Thriving in high velocity environments: what leaders can learn from the pandemic Removing the speed limit on innovation. How Enel Group’s response to the pandemic set them up for a brighter digital future Going beyond the technology to drive digital transformation. Facing a serious labour shortage and skills gap, construction businesses need to accelerate their investment in digital technologies. Machine control and automation technologies, such as GPS and laser-guidance systems, are already in use, but the pace of adoption across the industry is slow. The incremental pace of digital transformation in construction is making it harder to bring new workers into the industry, while the lack of digital skills is preventing further investment in digital technologies. Client demand is set to increase the need for the adoption of digital technologies, with education and staff training being key to creating a new digitally enabled construction workforce. Chris Sleight Bio Chris Sleight is recognised as one of the world’s leading authorities on global construction equipment markets. He holds an honours degree in civil engineering and, in a 24-year career with KHL Group, has edited the world’s two leading magazines for the industry – International Construction and Construction Europe. Following the acquisition of Off-Highway Research by KHL in June 2015, Chris transferred to the market intelligence, forecasting and management consultancy business – assuming the role of Managing Director of the business unit at the start of 2018. The Solution According to Chris Sleight, Managing Director of Off-Highway Research, construction needs to undergo a cultural shift to better understand and demonstrate the benefits of digital technology. Some of this will be driven by client demand, but education and third-party expertise has a huge role to play in bringing new workers armed with digital skills into the industry. When you think of automation, it is tempting to imagine driverless vehicles and machinery working away seemingly without the need of human intervention. The picture in construction is far from that vision, but there is still a wide range of technology already in use – most often in the form of machine control tools that help operators work more productively. “Automation is really difficult in construction because there are so many unknowns,” says Sleight. “The number of times an excavator has dug that first bucket full of earth out of the ground to find a water main that wasn’t supposed to be there… By the nature of it, you need the human element.” Machine control technologies like GPS and laser-guiding systems can help operators to deliver this accuracy. For instance, with GPS sensors feeding data back to a machine’s electronic controls, the height of a blade on a dozer can be adjusted automatically. And this makes the operator’s role simpler, safer and more productive. One challenge is that these technologies are not as widely adopted as they could be. “These digital tools have been available for a long time, around 20 years,” explains Sleight. “But there’s still a struggle for people to see the benefit in investing in them – even though they can contribute to easing the labour shortage in the industry.” Despite two-thirds of leaders in construction viewing digital transformation as an urgent priority, it is all part of what Sleight sees as a slow pace of technological change in construction. And this is exemplified by the gradual shift towards alternative fuels. “Moving to alternative fuels is a big one for construction,” he says. “Electrification is the focus, but it’s not as easy as talking about electric cars. There are electric construction vehicles available now, but in the realm of hundreds of machines out of more than a million sold each year. We’re talking years, if not decades for this to really take off.” In theory, the digitalization and automation of construction processes should make it easier to bring new workers into the industry. “With these tools in place, you don’t need someone with 30 years of experience to do the job,” says Sleight. “You can make it easier for a relatively fresh operator to work with the machines and get things right first time.” There are many reasons this has not yet become a reality. The fragmented nature of the industry means that subcontractors are often small family firms reluctant to invest in systems they have never needed before. The notoriously low-margin nature of construction only adds to this. Sleight also points to the fact that a larger cultural shift is needed. “If you’ve just spent decades built around existing systems, you have a lot of expertise in that and that’s what your people know, it’s not easy to make that change,” he says. “All of a sudden they’re expected to build things around new processes and technologies, which means we probably need a new type of talent in the industry as well.” Construction is far from alone in this. Our latest research saw 85% of industrial leaders say that most of their workforce will need some sort of retraining to adapt to digital transformation and new technologies. This leads to a paradox for construction businesses where the need for retraining adds to their reluctance to invest. New technology has the power to supplement and support the industry with much-needed new talent, but for many businesses, there is no clear route to adoption. The resolution to this paradox will not be easy to reach. It will need a shift in approach from client organisations – a process that, according to Sleight, is already underway. “I think the mentality is changing to the extent that some clients are now specifying technologies such as GPS, laser guidance and collision sensors,” he says. “For example, Highways England is now starting to mandate machine control technologies on its projects because it has worked with contractors who have used them before and realised the advantages of it.” This type of incentivisation to invest in machine control and automation tools could spark an acceleration in digital transformation for construction. But much will depend on client demands. “As these technologies find their way onto sites and people see the benefits, they will filter down the industry,” says Sleight. “But it really needs to come from the client. The client pays the bills, so they call the shots in terms of what technologies are required.” Efforts to offer greater education will also be vital in overcoming the digital skills gap and bring workers with new talents into the industry. “I don’t think construction has historically been well-promoted as a career choice, but that’s changing,” says Sleight. “People are increasingly doing vocational qualifications, which is a great choice for many and creates a wider range of digital skills for businesses to draw on as they bring in new technology.” These changes will take time, however, and businesses will need shorter-term solutions. Sleight advises companies to make the most of the resources available to them. “Certainly, for smaller firms, it’s a case of doing your own research and self-education,” he explains. “This isn’t always easy, which is why it’s important to talk to partners and equipment suppliers. Work with them to understand the technology that’s available and how it can improve productivity and profitability.” Despite the many challenges the construction industry faces (and the fact there are few quick fixes), Sleight is still hugely optimistic about the road ahead for businesses. “It’s very exciting to be watching this digital evolution,” he says. “I certainly wouldn't call it a revolution. I think we have to be realistic about how long it will take to resolve these issues, but change doesn’t just happen overnight. Obviously, forecasting these days is a tricky business, but I believe we have a positive future to look forward to.” 1 2021 engineering and construction industry outlook, Deloitte: https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/energy-and-resources/articles/engineering-and-construction-industry-trends.html Thriving in high velocity environments: what leaders can learn from the pandemic Removing the speed limit on innovation. How Enel Group’s response to the pandemic set them up for a brighter digital future Going beyond the technology to drive digital transformation. Eight out of ten industrial businesses believe that AI can help them deliver better results, but only 20% have adopted it so far. The mismatch between high expectations and implementation reality is a challenge that businesses need to overcome. There are many practical industrial applications for AI – including helping farmers to improve yields and driving quality in manufacturing. Leaders need a change in mindset to take their businesses out of the pre-digital age and realise the potential of AI. Amy Challen Bio Amy Challen leads the development of AI-enabled products and services across Shell’s Global Commercial initiatives and is an expert in embedding AI models within business operations. She has more than a decade’s experience in data science modelling and has previously held roles at McKinsey and London School of Economics. With a PhD in Applied Econometrics, Amy is an industry leader in AI strategy (including analytics transformation design) and is experienced in the practice of scaling up analytics interventions to realise business value. In her role at Shell, Amy is responsible for the development and deployment of AI solutions, heading up a global team that spans Bangalore to Houston. The team works across areas such as computational science, digitisation, and data science and analytics, with a particular focus on cutting-edge, innovative capabilities including machine vision, natural language processing and reinforcement learning. Find out more about AI in Shell AI is no longer the future. It is no longer set to transform business – it has already begun the process. And many organisations are reaping the benefits it can bring to efficiency and productivity. According to McKinsey, 50% of companies have adopted AI in at least one business function.1 The impact of this has been largely positive – six out of ten have seen a revenue increase, while four out of ten have used it to decrease their costs.1 A recent Deloitte survey supports this view, with 83% of manufacturers believing that AI has made – or will make – a practical and visible impact.2 More than a quarter say that the technology has already brought value to their companies.2 However, industrial businesses have thus far been slow to adopt AI. While 83% of industrial businesses believe it can help them deliver better results, only 20% have adopted it.3 So what’s holding leaders back? And how can they prepare their organisations for a productive digital future? For many companies, it can be difficult to make the business case for adoption – despite seven out of ten businesses seeing a revenue increase from AI use in applications like manufacturing.2 Additionally, the mismatch between the perceptions and reality of AI implementation is a barrier to progress and increased investment in the technology. “Despite the excitement around AI, there are plenty of inflated expectations of what it can do immediately,” says Amy Challen, Global Head of Artificial Intelligence at Shell. “It’s difficult when you’re going into a business and trying to explain that, actually, it’ll take six months to get everything up to speed. Or that frontline processes will need to change to adapt if they want to see real value from the solution.” An element of this comes from the fact that, while AI is becoming better understood in industrial settings, there’s still a lot of hype. And this can add to the implementation challenges that undermine AI’s potential. “One huge misconception is that AI is some kind of silver bullet,” explains Challen. “You get this with every technological revolution. People think it’s magic and that you can just plug it in, everything will work perfectly and you’ll save loads of money. But it’s not like that. Like any big organisational change, it takes time and effort – as well as change management – to get to the point where it delivers real value to a business. People have to understand that just having the solution itself isn’t enough; it’s part of a process that drives wider change.” Another challenge facing industrial AI is in exploring the practical applications of the technology. Viewing AI as a one-size-fits-all solution also creates a narrow view of what businesses can achieve with it – how they can transform operations and deliver value. There are many innovative ways AI can drive productivity in even the most remote and challenging settings. For example, in agriculture where – to meet growing demand, farms need the ability to double their yields by 2050.4 One way to achieve this is by using smarter, data-driven methods for determining crop choice and monitoring. This is exactly what Microsoft does with its FarmBeats programme, which provides a real-time view of every part of a farm – including soil and moisture data.5 Machine learning algorithms then take this previously unharvested data and use it to predict future outcomes. This gives farmers in-depth data insights telling them exactly what crops should be planted where to help them increase their yields and profitability. Another example is the use of AI across different manufacturing processes. Computer vision is transforming quality testing with cameras able to spot flaws that would be invisible to the human eye. Predictive maintenance combines with machine learning to provide real-time visibility into machine conditions to optimise operations. And generative design in the cloud is allowing companies to complete 50,000 days of engineering in one day.4 From Challen’s perspective, AI will act as a catalyst for the decarbonisation of industrial businesses. “AI will be hugely important for supply chain optimisation, electrification and grid balancing,” she says. “All of these obviously feed into the ongoing energy transition. And AI’s role in all three is identifying what is possible and then predicting, managing and optimising demands. So, while the solution to the energy transition may be based in chemical and physical sciences, AI can help us get to this solution faster.” Even with the examples above, it’s easy to see that AI is a complex technology – and certainly not a quick and easy, one-size-fits-all solution. For Challen, it’s less about trying to stick an AI solution on top of existing systems and more about redesigning processes to take full advantage of the technology. “The comparison I always use is when steam power arrived in the early 19th Century,” she explains. “Because water mills had needed to be placed ideally along streams and rivers to draw power, the system was built entirely around that. So, it took easily 30 years for the majority of mills to adopt steam power.” It’s a concept that rings true for AI implementation as well. “Like the mills, businesses still have everything set up for a pre-digital era,” she says. “Systems are laid out in a specific way for a world before AI and it can be challenging to move away from that.” The resolution to this challenge requires a change in approach from industrial leaders. “In the past we’ve helped GMs adapt their mindset when it comes to AI,” says Challen. “We’ve enabled them to avoid thinking traps and become a ‘fast follower’ rather than always having to do their own thing.” This ‘fast follower’ mindset could well be the key to driving adoption and helping businesses to realise the opportunity that AI offers them as part of their digital transformation journeys. “The faster we experiment and start trying to understand what works and what doesn’t, the quicker we’re going to get there,” Amy concludes. “We’re in a situation where it would be very, very easy to be left behind, so we have to take an attitude of ‘learning by doing’. We have to be thinking about what the customer of 10 years’ time needs, not just the customer of now.” There’s another example of how AI can enhance industrial operations – one that’s a little closer to home. In 2018, Shell launched Shell LubeChat, the first AI-powered chatbot tool for B2B lubricants. Operating 24/7 across 12 countries and a range of sectors (including manufacturing, construction, agriculture, power and fleet), the AI virtual assistant provides instant answers to more than 100,000 queries every year. Despite concerns that it might replace technical staff, LubeChat helps customers to solve their day-to-day issues while freeing up teams to focus on more challenging problems. It highlights the difference that AI can make to a business and its customers when used effectively. Digital technology helps us develop new and adjacent services for our customers Shell Remote Sense helps operators of large engines understand when issues are about to occur. This is an example where we combine our expertise in AI with our decades of experience in lubricant analyses to provide a unique service to our customers. Shell has over 30 years’ experience providing oil and equipment condition monitoring and analyse 750,000 oil samples every year. Good lubricant management is vital for keeping critical machinery healthy and operations running smoothly. Remote Sense uses sensors in conjunction with AI to offer real time oil- condition monitoring. This helps customers to reduce unplanned downtime, optimise maintenance and extend equipment life. 1 McKinsey & Company. “The state of AI in 2020.” McKinsey.com. 17 November, 2020. (accessed 01 November, 2021). 2 Deloitte. “Deloitte Survey on AI Adoption in Manufacturing.” Deloitte.com. 2020. (accessed 01 November, 2021). 3 Aspentech. “Industrial AI Accelerates Digital Transformation for Capital-Intensive Industries.” Aspentech.com. (accessed 01 November, 2021). 4 Aspentech. “Industrial AI Accelerates Digi 5 Microsoft. “FarmBeats: AI, Edge & IoT for Agriculture.” Microsoft.com. (accessed 01 November 2021). AI in Shell From machine learning to computer vision, deep learning to virtual assistants and autonomous vehicles to robotics, Shell has been focused on a range of technologies that have supported advances in AI. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Four companies taking a new approach to sustainable manufacturing See the real-world examples that prove there is more than one way to achieve sustainable success. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. Industrial businesses must make their way through three stages on their robotics journey – ‘tools for tasks’, ‘autonomous solutions’ and ‘digital colleagues’ Many industries are still in the ‘tools for tasks’ stage of robotics, where equipment emulates a singular, human action. There are many practical industrial applications for AI – including helping farmers to improve yields and driving quality in manufacturing. Key misconceptions include an underestimation of adoption difficulty, and the idea that robotics will replace human jobs. With an open-minded and learner-focused approach, leaders can use robotics to introduce safety, cost and efficiency benefits. Berry Mulder Bio Berry Mulder is a robotics expert whose professional purpose lies in using technology to improve the execution of business processes – with a particular focus on helping teams integrate robotics solutions for the purpose of adding entrepreneurial edge and business value. At Shell, Berry leads the Robotics Centre of Expertise – a group of industry experts whose main role is to incentivise and inspire Shell colleagues to consider how robotics can improve their own lines of business, whether through process automation, safety improvements, cost savings or carbon footprint reductions. Find out more about Robotics in Shell Throughout history, humans have created and adopted machines to help them work – driven by a need to achieve more in less time. This change is often met with fear that, eventually, people will no longer be needed in the workplace. When it comes to robots ‘taking over’ the workplace, the World Economic Forum forecasts that 85 million jobs may be displaced by a shift in labour division between humans and machines.1 But it’s important to highlight the difference between ‘replacing’ and ‘displacing’ a workforce. In fact, many within the field of robotics would suggest that, only once there is a widespread understanding of how robotics and human employees can best coexist, will industry be able to get the most from their mechanical counterparts. But before we get to that point, there are various robotics phases that industry – and society – has yet to progress through, building on the 2.7 million industrial robots operating in factories worldwide in 2020.2 As Berry Mulder, who leads the Robotics Centre of Expertise at Shell, puts it: “this is still the learning phase. It’s still the phase that we call ‘tools for tasks’, where a painting robot used to coat an industrial tank – for example – is still simply replicating what we’ve been doing as humans for 1,000 years or more. While there is still an achievement, and worth, to be found in a robot reproducing a singular motion – due to the potential for cost, consistency, quality and safety improvements – experts like Berry are clear on the additional applications and benefits that industries are yet to fully unlock. In the second phase, automation would take the process further, enabling a business to swiftly transition from one painting robot, manned by an individual driver, to teams of five or six robots that could complete the task both unsupervised and more quickly. Finally, by combining robotics with artificial intelligence (AI) and effective data integration, a closed-loop interaction can be achieved. In practice, this means a fleet could be instructed to paint a particular area by a corresponding inspection robot, which likewise, could be put into action when the site’s surveillance drone observes an area of corrosion in need of repair. This final, third phase would see the traditional workforce operating alongside true “digital colleagues” – collaborative robots (or “cobots”) which are set to represent 34% of the entire industrial robot market by 2025.3 However, standing in the way of this progress are several longstanding misconceptions that are still proving difficult to dispel. Myth 1: Robotics integration is quick and easy The first of these myths is the perception that integrating robotics into the workplace is a simple process. This notion is largely the product of a wider misunderstanding of the nuances between household robots and industrial robots; but just because a robotic vacuum cleaner is easily installed to clean your home’s floor, that doesn’t necessarily mean deploying a robotic solution to perform factory-based tasks is equally straightforward. One of the main reasons for this is the presence of external factors. Many industrial robots are designed to perform tasks either outside, where conditions can be unpredictable, or in complex indoor settings, where they are expected to operate 24/7. These constraints obviously have ramifications for design – after all, even if an industrial robot is developed to survey an outdoor facility, if that happens to be in an oil and gas facility, then it must be built to be explosive-safe. That being said, falling equipment prices are making many types of robotic capabilities more accessible. For example, robot arm prices have dropped 50% in the last decade4, while the cost of IoT sensors has fallen by nearly 200% to an average of $0.44.5 Myth 2: Robots are set to replace human workforces The second myth is that industrial robots and increased automation will lead to job losses. However, as Berry insists: “this is not about stealing jobs or replacing people. It’s about enhancing where people are not at their best, and letting those people upskill to things that humans are better at.” Berry gives the first-hand example of an operations supervisor who brought his whole team together – both younger and older employees – in their facility one day and pointed to their new workplace robot. The supervisor then explained that embracing these changes would give them the new needed skills for their jobs, rather than simply ignoring or rejecting a new way of working. Such interactions confirm the presiding feeling within the robotics field that industries must be open to embracing and enacting a mentality shift regarding these technologies. Only then can businesses start to reap the many benefits that robotics offers. So, what exactly are the benefits available to forward-thinking business leaders? Well, that all depends on the approach taken, but robotics can effectively unlock improvements in almost every area of business, from safety and sustainability to cost-effectiveness and efficiency. For Berry, a winning approach will always be rooted in open-mindedness and a learning mindset: “It’s a dialogue of change that you need to facilitate as a CEO. What’s the next generation skill pool that you need to tap into for your business goals, for example? And in this case, it just happens to be a hybrid model, with ‘man’ and machine together.” With the right mentality in tow, the next step is to take practical actions. First by identifying eager staff, and then letting them identify where robotics can be integrated to make a meaningful impact. For example, as safety is a priority, then perhaps the situation calls for surveillance drones that can either observe facilities remotely or that can be embedded on existing assets to augment an employee’s existing capabilities. Whereas, emission- or leak-detection robots can combine these safety functions with added sustainability benefits, by helping to monitor a facility and detect anomalies before they become a significant issue, such as energy, material wastage or downtime. And then efficiency and productivity come into play thanks to logistics or task-based robotics that can help streamline the 50% of tasks that are automatable using current technology, whether that’s cleaning, painting, inspecting or moving equipment.6 Ultimately, just as experts envision a future of robotic ecosystems helping business to automate and optimise industrial processes, Berry sees collaboration as an equally important part of decision makers’ toolkits: “we’re starting to see a lot more interaction between hardware suppliers and software providers for example, and in turn, even competitors are realising that they can learn faster, together, which is fantastic.” And so, robotics continues to have an increasingly noticeable impact on the landscape of most industrial settings. But just how big this impact will be on each individual business depends on the extent to which its leaders embrace and encourage robotics usage. “One major thing I’ve learnt over the last few years,” explains Berry, “is that it’s all about teaching and empowering the younger generation of the workforce. Get them involved – start small, aim big, and be open about your business goals. And then challenge your company experts to utilize their new digital tools in pursuit of those goals.” Not only will this see a shift in the division of labour between man and machine, it’ll help to drive a generational change in the human side of a workforce – especially in industrial businesses where attracting young talent can be a challenge. There is an exciting journey ahead. Industry has only just started tapping into the potential of robotics, in relative terms. And with 88% of worldwide businesses anticipating an increase in robotics investment, arguably, the best is yet to come.7 1 World Economic Forum. “The Future of Jobs Report 2020”. weforum.org. (accessed 04 November 2021). 2 International Federation of Robotics. “IFR presents World Robotics Report 2020.” IFR.org. 24 September, 2020. (accessed 01 November, 2021). 3 Robotic Industrial Association. “Global Collaborative Robots (Cobots) Market, 2020-2030.” PR Newswire. 08 October, 2020. (accessed 01 November, 2021). 4 Tuttle, Luke and Ben Gibbs. “Coronavirus: Another Reason to Automate.” Ready Robotics. (accessed 01 November, 2021). 5 Microsoft Dynamics 365. “2019 Manufacturing Trends Report.” Microsoft. 2019. (accessed 01 November, 2021). 6 Michael Coyne. “Winning in automation requires a focus on humans.” McKinsey & Company. 05 December, 2019. (accessed 01 November, 2021). 7 Lea Bolz. “Growth dynamics in industrial robotics.” McKinsey & Company. 15 July, 2019. (accessed 01 November, 2021). Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Four companies taking a new approach to sustainable manufacturing See the real-world examples that prove there is more than one way to achieve sustainable success. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. Most mining companies struggle to find their way through a complex mix of digital solutions. Creating a clear digital roadmap can simplify the route ahead – clarifying business needs. Intelligent integration, linking solutions through data, offers a quicker way to make sure systems are working together to drive efficiency. Digitalisation will be a key driver for decarbonisation, helping businesses to understand, monitor and reduce their emissions. Collaborating with trusted partners is a critical element in removing the complexity from digitalisation and adapting to the energy transition. Mark Hannan, General Manager, Mining Decarbonisation, Shell With almost 15 years’ industry experience, Mark is Shell’s strategy development lead for decarbonisation in the mining sector. From biofuels and renewables to carbon capture and offsetting, he is responsible for developing the low-carbon business models, infrastructure and integrated solutions that help global businesses adapt to the energy transition. In his previous role at Shell Digital Ventures, he led the creation of Shell and IBM’s OREN, the world’s first B2B marketplace dedicated to digital solutions and services designed for the mining industry. Challenge Across mining, the big question around digital transformation isn’t ‘if’ or even ‘when’; it’s ‘how’. Businesses understand that digital technology can help them overcome their biggest day-to-day challenges. But many don’t have a clear plan for how to integrate these solutions with each other – or with existing systems. Solution As Mark Hannan, General Manager, Mining Decarbonisation for Shell, explains: “Mining companies face a range of pressures. From meeting their operational targets to managing the safety of their employees – and keeping up with the energy transition – they know they need to adapt to digitalisation.” That’s why they should collaborate with the right partners to make the complex simple and bring their different solutions together to meet the needs of their business. Mining businesses are looking to shake up their operations massively with digital technology. It’s why, in our recent research report, seven out of ten mining leaders said they view digitalisation as an urgent priority.1 But, right now, many of them aren’t sure how to do this. “They’re really enthusiastic about embracing digital, but there’s so much choice,” says Hannan. “Where do these businesses start? It’s not that the solutions aren’t out there. The real challenge for them is finding the right types of solutions – the ones that best meet their needs.” In 2020, Shell and IBM came together to resolve this issue. Together, the two companies launched OREN, a global B2B marketplace that connects mining businesses with digital solutions and services designed to meet their needs.2 “The idea was to provide mining companies with a one-stop shop for digitalisation,” explains Hannan. “It was initially based on specific use cases across the mining value chain that we validated with customers. This could be reducing fuel consumption or making sure a workforce is safe at any given moment. Type in your use case and you’d see all the solutions mapped to it.” The launch of OREN was a success, but businesses needed more than the ability to find solutions. So, Shell and IBM moved to a more collaborative role that helped to deliver support for digital strategy and implementation. “What became apparent was that companies didn’t know how these solutions fit into their wider digital roadmap,” says Hannan. “So, we worked closely with customers to create their roadmaps for the next three years – offering practical solutions while taking into account their individual needs and budget constraints.” “Another element was getting them to understand that, when you adopt one digital solution, that’s not the end of the conversation,” continues Hannan. “The new solutions need to be integrated with other systems on their mining site – or implemented as part of a wider package designed to help them reduce costs or improve efficiency.” Integration is vital for digitalisation in mining companies. There’s no one solution that can resolve every issue. And that means making sure a collection of solutions and services work together to drive efficiency. Hannan uses the example of the maintenance needs around a tailings dam to illustrate this. “Let’s say a company has sensors that can detect in real-time the status of the dam and its components,” he explains. “But the alerts from the sensors don’t go to anyone or trigger an action.” This lack of integration causes huge inefficiency for the engineers involved. “If there’s something wrong with the dam, an engineer often has to identify the issue then come back and order spare parts to fix it,” Hannan continues. “But, when solutions are integrated, the alert from the sensors automatically generates the work management order for engineers – along with orders for any parts that are needed.” The challenge for many businesses is understanding how they can build those links between new digital solutions and existing IT systems. Especially when 94% of mining companies say legacy infrastructure is a barrier to digitalisation.1 However, this is where intelligent integration can make a huge difference. “Data is the key to how we’re helping mining companies resolve the complexity of integration,” says Hannan. “What we've said to companies is, rather than them having to integrate all the different solutions on their digital roadmap, we can integrate the data so we're not creating anything new.” “In many cases, they already have some of the solutions they need,” he continues. “So, we’re simply adding another element to that and linking it. This could be integration with their inventory management or ERP systems. We’re bringing that together through the data, showing customers that they can adopt four or five new solutions to match their different use cases and solve an end-to-end problem.” The timescale for this style of integration underlines how effective the approach can be. “When you integrate the data, you’re looking at around three months to get it done,” says Hannan. “We’ve surprised customers who thought they were looking at a four-year programme to bring it all together.” The integration of digital solutions also plays an important role in helping mining companies to decarbonise their operations. Mining more sustainably requires the ability to understand and monitor site emissions. But it’s a capability that many are currently lacking. “Most mining companies will track their emissions manually or with a range of different sensors,” says Hannan. “This means they can do it once – maybe twice – a year. But, with increasing regulation and pressure from stakeholders, they now need the ability to keep track of emissions in real-time.” So, what is the practical route to businesses achieving this? Especially as nine out of ten mining leaders see a complex mix of available solutions as a barrier to their decarbonisation efforts.1 Intelligent integration offers an answer. “Integrating the data from different solutions can help companies build that big picture in real-time,” explains Hannan. “So, you link the sensor data from your vehicle fleet with your industrial processing, your shipping, your rail operations and so on. This gives you the ability to see emissions across your business.” This is yet another example of how digital technology sits at the heart of the mining industry’s efforts to reach a net-zero future. It’s no surprise that companies are overwhelmed by the range of digital solutions available to them. But this complexity doesn’t have to hold business back – as OREN demonstrates. “I'm really proud that we're bringing innovation from parts of the world that mining customers would normally never see,” concludes Hannan. “And I’m proud that we’re working with customers to build practical solutions to their problems – from efficiency to carbon management.” It shows that, by working closely with trusted partners, mining operators can simplify the complex. They can create clear next steps on their digital journey – along with new opportunities for safety, productivity and sustainability. 1Based on a survey of 300 global industrial business leaders carried out by Shell and Edelman Data Intelligence in June 2021 2Shell. 2020. “OREN: Shell and IBM Create Innovation Software and Services Marketplace for Mining.” shell.com. (accessed 1 December 2021) Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Four companies taking a new approach to sustainable manufacturing See the real-world examples that prove there is more than one way to achieve sustainable success. Under Pressure: Leading in Paradox Industries Read this report on how 300 senior decision-makers across heavy industry made decisions at speed, at scale and under immense pressure, during the pandemic. Leadership InterviewsSeries of interviews with industry leaders and Shell experts, sharing insights and new ways of working needed to digitally transform and decarbonise businesses. Driving digitalisation: The view from a Digital Opportunity Lead Insights from Carl Albernethy, Shell Digital Opportunity expert, on how he’s driving digitalisation in his team. Behind the scenes of digitalisation in mining: How data innovation drives intelligent integration Explore the importance of integrated solutions in mining, and why data plays a key role in overcoming the complexity of digitalisation. Why your business should already be experimenting with industrial AI Explore practical applications of AI for industrial businesses as we talk to Amy Challen, Shell’s Global Head of AI, about the technology’s exciting potential. How breakthroughs in robotics are levelling up the productivity and safety of industrial workforces We interview robotics expert Berry Mulder to explore the future of robotics in industrial businesses – and how robots will soon become our digital colleagues. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. How Mahindra Group is driving sustainability in construction Understand how science-based targets and digital technology are critical in reaching carbon-neutral targets. WindEurope CEO on why he’s projecting a bright forecast for the future of wind energy Giles Dickson explains how the sector’s growth is being accelerated by digitalisation, and why this can have a direct impact on companies’ decarbonisation efforts. How MachineMax brought a start-up mentality and outside perspective to long-standing industries Decoding the data behind innovative leadership. Thriving in high velocity environments: what leaders can learn from the pandemic Removing the speed limit on innovation. How Enel Group’s response to the pandemic set them up for a brighter digital future Going beyond the technology to drive digital transformation. Do ‘paradox industries’ actually need a resolution? Why companies are focusing on an integrated approach to sustainable growth. How Anglo American created an integrated approach to decarbonisation in high velocity situations Full-impact decision-making – a lightbulb moment for sustainability. Industry InsightsThought leadership articles focused on the topics of innovation, future trends and new technologies, operational efficiency, and sustainability. Four companies taking a new approach to sustainable manufacturing See the real-world examples that prove there is more than one way to achieve sustainable success. Spotlight on Shell experts: Siva Kasturi on working with OEMs and reducing machine downtime As Regional OEM Manager for the Asia-Pacific area, Siva works closely with all the major OEMs in the region. 3 Business Strategies to Combat an Evolving Industry Landscape Troy Chapman, General Manager of Global Marketing for B2B/OEM Lubricants, delves into why companies need to take a proactive and long-term approach to industry change, and how we are helping them to rebuild resilient and productive operations. Growth Potential That Extends Beyond the Bottom Line Carlos Maurer, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial for Shell, explores the importance of potential in driving growth, and how our end-to-end solutions help customers unlock their potential to become more sustainable and profitable. Maximising Your Output Whether you’re an OEM or a site manager, productivity is paramount. Find out how to unlock new efficiencies and lower total cost of ownership. The Future of Farming Find out how new technology in agriculture is changing the way we view and approach the most pressing industry challenges. People and Partnerships By investing in your own people and their futures, companies can contribute to a more productive and progressive construction industry environment. Reducing the Total Cost of Ownership in Mining and Quarrying Introducing the Shell Lubricant Solutions technology, expertise and servicer offer for customers in metals. Lube EducationAt Shell, we aim to help our customers achieve lubrication excellence and meet or exceed their reliability and maintenance goals. Using the correct lubricant is just one element of making lubricants work for your business. Discover how to identify the conditions you can change or control to improve your equipment or machine health, as well as access valuable information to help you achieve your performance objectives to deliver value for your business. Benefits of Predictive Maintenance Predictive maintenance goes beyond simply preventing equipment breakdown. From protecting assets to improving operational efficiency, see how companies can use new technologies, including AI, to save time, money, and even lives. Do Economy lubricants save you money? Cheaper lubricants can offer short-term cost savings, but are they the right choice overall? Our Spotlight on Shell Experts series explores why customers need to pick the right product for each application if they want to reduce TCO and downtime. 10 Ways to reduce machine downtime It is possible to eliminate 92% of machine breakdowns by adopting some simple tactics, including using the right lubricant in the right place and using the right technique. These are our top 10 tips for reducing machine downtime. Your regular lubricant storage checklist For many machines, excluding contamination is the only way you can keep them running properly. Regular monitoring guarantees your liquids will do the job they should for as long as they can. Technology is far from the only element businesses need to get right. They also need to make sure their ways of working digitally mature. A trusted data platform is a critical foundational aspect for digitalisation that can empower teams to gain valuable insights and improve the decision-making process. Shifting their mindsets to understand core business pain points allows digitalisation teams to build on existing concepts and deliver rapid solutions to user problems. With the right digital foundations in place, organisations can adopt a Low Code/No Code approach where colleagues are able to create their own solutions quickly and effectively – giving them the ability to unlock new opportunities. Carl Abernethy, Digital Opportunity Lead, Shell A Data & Analytics specialist and technical lead in Shell’s Lubricant Supply Chain (LSC) business, Carl is an expert in developing and executing digital products for global teams of users. He has more than a decade’s experience of advancing digitalisation across Shell, from designing data platforms to translating business needs into proof of concepts that lead to valuable solutions. Businesses been forced to adapt rapidly to new digital ways of working over the last two years but accelerating the transformation will become critical to their future survival and success. According to a report by McKinsey, nine out of ten companies will need to change their business model to make it more economically viable by 2023. Within this, 64% will need to create new digital business(es) during that time.1 Leaders must now lay out a clear path for the digital future of their businesses. And this must shift their digital approach from reactive implementation to a proactive platform that empowers their teams to achieve more. Getting there is easier said than done. But, according to Carl Abernethy, Digital Opportunity Lead for Shell, companies will quickly see the impact of effective digital tools spread throughout different business functions – providing they have the correct foundations in place. Often technology is seen as the end goal. It’s easy for organisations to think that the act of either selecting or developing digital tools by itself will lead to guaranteed success. But, if their ways of working don’t support these solutions, they’re likely to see reduced adoption and ROI. That’s why, for Abernethy, making sure the business has the right mentality for, and approach to, digitalisation is a key foundational aspect. “I think it naturally takes time to shift the way an organisation works. But the success of a product isn’t just in its creation,” he says. “We could create the perfect tool. Yet if the people don't embrace it then the tool wouldn’t be adopted or achieve success.” To make sure the tools delivered value, the LSC Digitalisation product team adopted a customer centric approach. “We really started to change the way we worked by always putting the customer first,” Abernethy explains. “So, in our team specifically, it was all about saying, ‘OK, where are your pain points and how can we support you?’ From there, we were able to create a prioritised backlog of value-adding items helping to deliver widely adopted solutions.” One of the major benefits that this mindset shift unlocked was the ability to deliver an initial solution much quicker than ever before. “Previously, digital products had taken up to one year to create and scale out to the full user base. Numerous reasons such as delivery methodology, lack of a data platform, legacy or process-heavy deployment had all accumulated to slow delivery,” says Abernethy. “However, recent similarly sized products have been delivered in just a few months to the full user base. This is followed by smaller frequent releases helping to get rapid feedback and allowing us to react to possible changes in requirements. That way, the tools start to deliver value – even if initially it’s only an aspect of the original request.” This doesn’t mean that there won’t be further change. Each company’s digital mindset will evolve constantly – a process that will continue as more people embrace new ways of working. As well as getting their people and processes ready for further digitalisation, organisations need to make sure their new digital tools have the right information to work with. They need a trusted data layer to fuel the digital processes and drive effective decision making. “The data layer is one of the key foundations to any digital product,” Abernethy explains. “Once you have that foundation in place, you could give the business access to the data layer – allowing them to tap into the data for themselves. So, it becomes a balance between delivering a digital product to them or allowing them to explore to get their own insights out of the information.” Abernethy outlines the impact data visibility can have on a team, sharing the example of a supply issue caused by a fire at one of their suppliers. “The supply chain needed to know the product portfolio, networking, current stock and future demand so they could manage the situation with customers,” he explains. “They could download reports and work with the information in Excel but crunching all the data was a time-consuming process. And they needed to make quick decisions.” Abernethy and his team were able to create a highly tactical solution to this specific problem in roughly three days. This gave the supply chain managing this crisis the visibility they needed – along with automatic daily updates. “It was a task that they’d have normally done once a week or once a month, and now they had that information daily,” says Abernethy. “It highlights what you can achieve with digital tools built on a strong data foundation, and the difference they make.” Even with the right people, processes and data in place, it can be a challenge to avoid duplicated digital products across different business functions – something that will definitely slow down the pace of digitalisation. For Abernethy, engaging with each function to understand their needs within the context of the wider digital ecosystem is often a useful first step. “If a new idea comes in from the business, it may well be that we realise there’s overlap with existing tools in our portfolio or the data foundation is already in place within our data platform,” he explains. “This provides us with situations where the effort to deliver a new solution is low, but the value is huge. And the more we can do that – the more we have that overlap – the better.” Within Shell, new opportunities are collected by a process that Abernethy refers to as a funnel of opportunities, with each idea being grouped under the LSC operations of Plan, Source, Make, Deliver. It’s a concept where ideas and digital tools are categorised to give visibility of what already exists within the business – and what might prove to be useful when applied to another function. “All of our products sit in one (or more) of these four pillars, which gives us an overview of how they complement each other and support the supply chain,” says Abernethy. “By having this visibility, we can clearly see what products could be extended to meet the different needs of each business function. And this only increases the pace at which we can develop and deliver new tools.” In the future, Abernethy also sees companies taking an even bigger step that will further accelerate their digital journeys. Where they’re currently able to reuse and expand existing tools across different business functions, organisations can adopt a Low Code No Code approach where colleagues are able to create their own solutions quickly and effectively. “This gives people the ability to replace tasks and functions that are repetitive and time-consuming but are potentially too small in value to put a product team on,” he says. “With the right framework and handrails in place, any individual in the business can become a citizen data engineer and be part of the overall acceleration of digitalisation.” The move to embed a Low Code No Code approach shows what an organisation can aim for with the right digital foundations in place. Accelerating digitalisation then becomes less about how your business keeps up with the competition and more about the opportunities it can unlock to give you an advantage. 1 McKinsey. “The new digital edge: Rethinking strategy for the post pandemic era.” mckinsey.com. 2021. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Under Pressure: Leading In Paradox Industries The report explores the experiences and behaviour of 300 senior decision-makers across heavy industry during the pandemic, as they made decisions at speed, at scale and under immense pressure. Behind the scenes of digitalisation in mining: How data innovation drives intelligent integration Explore the importance of integrated solutions in mining, and why data plays a key role in overcoming the complexity of digitalisation. Technology LeadershipShell’s experts are working to formulate, test and shape the future of lubrication to help businesses perform in a changing landscape. Discover how they do it. How we keep the world moving. The energy challenge facing us has never been greater. That’s why Shell is working to deliver lubrication and service solutions that don’t just meet the needs of businesses now, but in the future, too. With technology centres in three continents, we’ve leveraged the know-how of hundreds of experts across the world to deliver products that help our customers’ machinery operate efficiently. We keep the world moving through partnership, innovation and application, delivering lubricants for heavy duty machinery to targeted solutions for international markets, as well as battery e-fluids for electric vehicles. We create new and bespoke lubricants capable of withstanding extreme temperatures including for CNH, the leading manufacturer of agricultural and construction machinery. We also work with our partners to accelerate the energy transition and innovate to create new technologies in areas such as electrification and e-mobility. We have a strategic alliance with Kreisel Electric which is creating next generation electric vehicle batteries to deliver industry-leading battery efficiency, fast-charging capabilities and superior safety and stability. The partnership is enabling us to take electric vehicle batteries to the next level. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Under Pressure: Leading In Paradox Industries The report explores the experiences and behaviour of 300 senior decision-makers across heavy industry during the pandemic, as they made decisions at speed, at scale and under immense pressure. Behind the scenes of digitalisation in mining: How data innovation drives intelligent integration Explore the importance of integrated solutions in mining, and why data plays a key role in overcoming the complexity of digitalisation. Predictive maintenance: Industry buzzword or maintenance must-have?Stay one step ahead of your equipment – and your competition – with a future-ready digital toolbox of solutions, software, and services. Predictive maintenance is helping industrial sectors to go beyond simply preventing equipment breakdown. By using digital technologies to reduce the likelihood of failures, it helps operators avoid costly downtime and high maintenance costs. Oil condition monitoring is one way of shifting from a reactive to a proactive – and preventative – maintenance approach, with continuous testing and oil analysis helping to spot potential issues before they occur. Remote sensors and real-time oil analysis programmes allow operators to take the next step towards predictive maintenance to ensure equipment health – with machine learning and advanced analytics combining with human expertise to enable faster decision making based on real-time insights. Digital equipment management platforms give off-highway operators the ability to track large vehicle and equipment parcs, collecting data on everything from fuel consumption and emissions to idling time and utilisation – all in one centralised dashboard. History is full of examples of society imagining what the future will look like. From flying cars to robot helpers, every generation thinks they can predict how the world will change over the next fifty to one hundred years. These projections often have one thing in common: they tend to focus on the consumer lifestyle as opposed to the industries behind the individual. Industries like construction, manufacturing, mining, and power meanwhile, carry on moving forward, often out of sight and out of mind for much of society. However, take a closer look and this is arguably where the real technological breakthroughs have been taking place over the last few decades. None more so than predictive maintenance – an approach to maintenance management that uses data to forecast the optimal time for intervention, with an insight-driven regime rather than one based on a pre-set schedule. Importantly, this approach is helping to equip industry teams with the tools needed to fully realise their business’ operational potential. While seeing into the future has proven to be a difficult task for most, it’s actually something that is becoming a lot more common within many industrial environments. Starting with oil condition monitoring (OCM) – a maintenance programme that uses various oil analysis tests to provide operators with early warning insights into the health of their equipment. Shell LubeAnalyst is a good case in point: a lab-based oil analysis programme, it tests everything from contamination to viscosity in order to build up a comprehensive picture of oil – and equipment – condition. With 30 years of in-service performance benchmarking data, equating to roughly 25 million data points, the resulting reports can provide an indication of potential issues before they even occur. And because the future holds a different outcome for each individual business, Shell continually invests in innovative technologies to meet a variety of maintenance needs across a number of industrial sectors – helping operators make the most of the data available to them. Take the power sector, for example, where only 20-30% of data collected in plants is currently used to directly inform decision making; a service like Shell LubeAnalyst prevents operators from overlooking valuable insights that could guard against significant losses.1 The true merging of digital technology and the human mind might still only be a work of fiction, but that doesn’t mean the two can’t work together in harmony across today’s industrial landscape. In fact, the combination of human expertise and the power of data is becoming an increasingly important tool for those looking to maintain nimble and efficient operations. Shell Remote Sense epitomises this meeting of minds, by combining more than 30 years of lubricant expertise with advanced analytics and machine learning. And thanks to sensor technology, this combination helps deliver actionable, real-time insights into the condition of in-service oil, giving you access to its live, round-the-clock status. Since this avoids the need to send away samples to the lab and wait for the results, you can instead enjoy your morning coffee while your oil is monitored remotely. With 44% of power sector staff admitting that maintenance is not prioritised until equipment breaks down – and 40% often experiencing breakdowns due to ineffective lubrication – the value of this data-driven process can be huge.2 That’s because Shell Remote Sense allows operators to act more quickly on immediate insights into areas such as Remaining Oil Life and Contamination Detection, maximising uptime while quantifying CO2 savings from optimised lubrication. This kind of predictive maintenance is helping industrial sectors to go beyond simply preventing equipment breakdown. By using digital technologies to reduce the likelihood of failures, it helps operators avoid costly downtime and high maintenance costs – helping to potentially reduce overall maintenance costs by 5-10%.3 Stationary assets are one thing, but what happens when your most important – and expensive – equipment is constantly on the move and exposed to external variables like unpredictable weather and uneven terrain? Again, the answer involves sensors. But this time, the data pool is expanded to address mobile needs like fuel consumption, idling rates and emissions output. That’s why a tool like MachineMax relies so heavily on the Internet of Things (IoT). By allowing operators to connect their off-highway equipment to their chosen digital platform, the resulting exchange of data can help maximise productivity, and therefore, profitability too. Take idling for example: beyond its environmental impact, eliminating idling from your company’s work vehicles has the potential to save almost $15,000 per vehicle each year.4 And that’s not all. Using MachineMax’s digital telematics solution, a business is given greater visibility into the makeup of their vehicle parc, whether owned, rented or contracted. Armed with a wealth of real-time data, a raft of strategic decisions can be made with confidence, such as: Adapting the size or composition of the fleet Removing bottlenecks and increasing utilisation Automating servicing schedules and proactively managing maintenance Even in the 21st century, predicting the future is still not yet a science. However, thanks to advancements in digital technology and industrial expertise, predicting your maintenance needs is a lot more achievable, providing you have the right tools at your disposal and the technical support to guide you there. Shell Lubricant Solutions combines both, by facilitating partnerships that are helping business and society to progress more quickly, while continuing to provide maintenance solutions that prioritise the performance and protection that industrial operations continue to rely on. 1Rodolfo Maciel and Peter Safarik. “Power Plant 4.0: Embracing next-generation technologies for power plant digitization.” McKinsey & Company. September 2020 (accessed 20 May, 2022). 2This survey, commissioned by Shell Lubricants and conducted by research firm Edelman Intelligence, is based on 350 interviews with Power sector staff who purchase, influence the purchase or use lubricants / greases as part of their job from March to May 2018. For more information, please visit www.edelmanintelligence.com (accessed 20 May, 2022). 3Chris Coleman, Satish Damadaran and Mahesh Chandramouli. “Making Maintenance Smarter.” Deloitte. 09 May, 2017 (accessed 20 May, 2022). 4Volta Power Systems. “The true cost of idling for work trucks.” June 12, 2020 (accessed 20 May, 2022). Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Four companies taking a new approach to sustainable manufacturing See the real-world examples that prove there is more than one way to achieve sustainable success. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. In the world of ecommerce, customers expect B2B platforms to work as well as the consumer ordering websites and portals they use to order everyday items with ease. And, if your ecommerce platform doesn’t deliver that experience, you can’t build the customer trust needed to drive growth. Understanding what customers want and need from a platform means taking a customer-led approach to development. To achieve this with the reimagining of Shell MarketHub, the team built strong strategic partnerships with customers to inform their design decisions. The MarketHub team collaborated with customers at every step of the development process – from initial expectations to iterative testing – to make sure there were no surprises when the final platform was deployed. The revamped version of Shell MarketHub (known as MarketHub 2.0) has had an immediate impact. Average basket sizes across orders are up, while personalisation has opened opportunities for new revenue through recommended products – proving the benefits of a customer-led approach. To meet the evolving needs of customers, the Shell MarketHub B2B ecommerce platform underwent an extensive redevelopment. Bringing in all the elements you’d expect to see from leading consumer ordering portals, MarketHub 2.0 has rapidly increased the number of products and services that users add to their baskets during an order and opened new revenue streams across existing customers. It’s an ideal example of how moving to a customer-led approach can deliver a swift positive impact. And why working closely with our customers to better understand their needs, listen to their feedback and take an iterative approach to development is the key to success. The challenge A critical challenge for B2B ecommerce is the fact that customers expect platforms to deliver the same efficient and convenient experience they get from consumer sites like Amazon. However, achieving this isn’t always easy – as Romi Arman, Global Head eCommerce & Digital Transformation for Shell, explains. “We keep hearing how customers use their experience of B2C platforms like Amazon to benchmark things in their professional lives,” says Arman. “They expect things to be easy. They expect things to be intuitive. They expect things to work. But, in B2B, we come from a world where we expected B2B customers to memorise 10-digit product codes to place orders.” And a poor ecommerce experience can create much larger problems for a business – especially when it comes to building lasting relationships with their customers. “I firmly believe that, if you don’t get the basic experience right in ecommerce, then you won’t get customer trust,” explains Arman. “And, if you don’t get their trust, it’s hard to do all the fancy stuff you want to do in terms of cross-selling, bundling offers or selling digital solutions. So, if you don’t build that basic trust then you can’t really grow the business with customers online.” It’s a challenge that will resonate with many large global companies. With so many businesses to manage, products to offer and teams of people to manage, getting the basics right can often be more complex than expected. Which is why a new approach was needed when Arman and his team sat down to reimagine the MarketHub platform. The solution Meeting customer needs with a refreshed B2B ecommerce platform means fully understanding what users wanted to see. So, strong partnerships with those customers are the key to success. It’s all part of what Arman refers to as ‘working from the customer back’. “In the past, with our engineering pedigree at Shell, we’ve tended to start with the guys in the white lab coats when creating a product,” he says. “But now, we’re making the important move of pivoting from being product-led to being customer-led.” To redesign the MarketHub platform, Arman and his team started with the customer. Everything was geared around understanding what customers wanted from their ecommerce experience – then working backwards in a sense to make sure version 2.0 matched those expectations. As Arman explains, this meant recreating many of the elements that consumers take for granted in consumer-based ecommerce. “It was important to create a system in which it was easy for customers to log in, search for products and place an order,” he says. “The ordering page looks exactly like how you’d see product images displayed on Amazon. Customers can place orders then track their deliveries, just as you’d track an Amazon parcel to your doorstep.” Alongside that, MarketHub 2.0 needed to make it simple for customers to make payments online and check their documentation (including invoices). Altogether, from working closely with customers, the team had identified the need for a much more streamlined and efficient user experience – all of which informed the development of the refreshed platform. The process Understanding what your customers want and being able to deliver on that expectation are two very different things. So, at every stage, Arman and his team anchored the development of MarketHub 2.0 around four core customer outcomes that they were looking to deliver: To follow these principles, the MarketHub 2.0 team needed to forge effective strategic partnerships with their customers. Partly because they needed those customers to illuminate the way forward, which we can see in the process used to reimagine the platform’s user experience. “For us, user experience isn’t about how we design for customers. It’s about designing with customers,” says Arman. “So, typically we work on what we call a human-centric design process. We spend time interviewing a customer to understand what their frictions are when using the platform. We then go back to the development team and design the ideal experience based on what we’ve learnt.” From there, the team would build prototypes for the platform that they put in front of customers to test as part of an iterative process. “Only at the point where the customer is happy with it do we build the product out,” explains Arman. “And, as we go through the build, we continue cycling it through with the customer. So, by the time we get to the final deployed product, there should be no surprises for customers. It should meet all their expectations.” The result of this focus on convenience and personalisation is that MarketHub 2.0 is driving new revenues. For example, average basket sizes on the platform have increased by around 30% since its redevelopment. It has also seen a positive response from users, with a customer satisfaction index (CSI) score of between 8.2 and 8.3. “The highest CSI score we’d ever see in a B2B environment is 8.5, so that’s really good,” explains Arman. “On the whole, it’s a much-improved experience for customers compared to the previous platform.” The importance of effective partnerships So, what can businesses learn from the MarketHub 2.0 development experience? Arman warns against creating solutions that feel like ‘an aspirin looking for a headache’. “I’d say you can never go wrong by starting with the customer,” he says. “If you start with the tech first, you’ll always miss the mark because the problem you’re trying to solve is not yet clear. And don’t assume you know what customers want. Ask the customers what they want, and they’ll tell you. You’re always going to be safer doing it that way round.” For Arman, this is the key to building trust with customers and establishing a partnership that leads to much bigger ambitions. “This is where it starts to get interesting because you can begin to think about new digital solutions and revenue streams,” he says. “However, it must start with the customer. If you don’t understand their problems, you can’t provide solutions and you won’t be able to build that trust.” From greater personalisation to providing the building blocks for other digital solutions across Shell, MarketHub 2.0 has huge potential for future growth. And, ultimately, it offers an insightful case study for how B2B businesses can drive ecommerce success when they develop the right partnerships with their customers. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Four companies taking a new approach to sustainable manufacturing See the real-world examples that prove there is more than one way to achieve sustainable success. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. Many organisations don’t know what data exists across their business. As well as making it inefficient and time consuming to access knowledge, this lack of visibility prevents teams from using data-driven insights to improve their offer to customers. Realising that data could be one of its greatest assets, the Shell Projects and Technology Lubricants, and Fuels Technology team established the Frictionless Data Access (FDA) project within its wider digitalisation programme (known as SPARK). With a vision to drive business strategy through digital technology solutions, SPARK integrates data across the value chain to generate insights, demonstrate product benefits, and democratise sustainability by providing faster and cleaner energy solutions for Shell customers. The Frictionless Data Access project created a single source of truth for all the formulation and testing data held within Shell – helping product developers to deliver more creative solutions to their customers with more speed. With greater access to the information they need, Shell teams are now able to increase their speed to market with new products, and free up employee’s time for more value-added tasks. The Frictionless Data Access project, as part of the SPARK programme, demonstrates the importance of digitalisation across every business area – and how digitally enabled solutions will be the key to meeting the current and future needs of customers. Sravani Gullapalli, Technology Manager for Digitalisation, Shell Sravani Gullapalli is an expert product developer and technology manager, with close to a decade’s experience in lubricants and a PhD in Chemical Engineering. Currently focused on digitalisation within Shell’s Projects and Technology Lubricants and Fuels Technology team, she is playing a pivotal role in the transformation of product development through data-driven insights. The challenge Many organisations don’t really know what data exists across their business. Even those that do often find it difficult to access what they need quickly. It’s no surprise, as information is often held in different systems, different structures and even in different locations within global companies. A recent Deloitte study highlights how workers who handle and develop knowledge and data (such as engineers and product developers) spend 25% of their time looking for the information they need to do their job.1 And that’s before you get to the questions around data quality and accuracy. The solution Realising that data could be one of its greatest assets, the Shell Projects and Technology Lubricants and Fuels Technology team established the SPARK programme – to help drive business strategy through data-driven decision making. SPARK helps Shell to underpin business strategy with digitally enabled solutions, by integrating foundational data throughout the entire value chain. In turn, this makes it simpler for the team to serve their customers, by generating smarter insights, demonstrating clear products benefits, and focusing on important areas like sustainability. How to SPARK a data-led transformation SPARK has quickly made a noticeable impact, with one of the first strategic elements to emerge being Frictionless Data Access. The aim of Frictionless Data Access was to create a single source of truth for all the formulation and testing data held within Shell. This would then make that information more readily available to users and AI solutions, helping people to visualise the data and speed up their decision making. “By implementing this, the team has already unlocked value from years of product testing and development,” says Sravani Gullapalli, Technology Manager for Digitalisation at Shell. “Where people previously relied on a time-consuming process of consulting with various stakeholders – which was often unknowingly duplicated – they can now develop new products for customers much more efficiently by building on the information that already exists.” The team realised the potential impact that digitalisation could have on R&D, especially with the emergence of trends such as big data, virtual experimentation, and digital collaboration. From there, they worked closely with their colleagues to understand how to maximise that potential across the business. “We started with a survey of our organisation that spanned across various job roles, regions, products and areas of experience,” explains Gullapalli. “Essentially, we asked them what their biggest pain points were. And they told us that the biggest strength we have is our data, but it's also our greatest opportunity.” So, with a strong focus on data, the SPARK programme was created – with Frictionless Data Access acting as a critical pillar for it. In turn, SPARK Frictionless Data Access became the first tool able to consolidate all Shell lubricant, fuels and bitumen formulations and associated performance data into one repository, allowing easy transparent access to data to end users. Frictionless access to better results At its core, Frictionless Data Access might not sound like the most exciting of projects. Sourcing, cleaning, and standardising all of Shell’s formulation and testing data over the last 16 years was always likely to be a painstaking task. However, by putting that work in, the team have laid the foundations for their colleagues to deliver some truly exciting results. As well as unlocking completely new ways of working, it’s encouraging people to solve problems creatively in a way that improves their response to customer needs. So, rather than spending time searching for information, product development teams now have: Easily accessible trusted data that saves significant time when identifying target formulations Creative data queries across different product sectors and locations that can deliver unexpected correlations and improvements in performance The ability to enhance product performance by carrying out ad-hoc experimental analysis on an unprecedented scale And the impact of this has been clear for users to see… “Imagine if you could increase your speed to market for new product developments. Or respond to customer requests much more rapidly,” says Gullapalli, “With Frictionless Data Access in place, we don’t have to imagine these scenarios anymore. We’re now able to do all of it and more.” As Gullapalli highlights, Frictionless Data Access delivers a range of benefits to users. For instance, they have greater access to the information they need by being able to extract and integrate information on product performance across all regions and product categories. As well as speeding up the product development process, it frees up their time for other potentially more valuable tasks. All of it helps Shell to maintain its position as a global leader in lubricants technology, generating deeper insights to create products that better serve customers. Turning product development on its head To put the impact of Frictionless Data Access in context, let’s look at how product development worked previously. Due to the challenges around data access, multiple data formats or collating information from multiple systems, the previous process relied heavily on collaboration with a network of subject matter experts and stakeholders. “The problem with that approach was that it was time consuming and limited you to the knowledge base of the SMEs you interviewed,” says Gullapalli. “The results of those discussions often left you with a wide range of options to consider, making your experimental verification and testing process take even longer.” With information is one place, Frictionless Data Access enables colleagues to find information within minutes and find solutions which previously would not have been considered. With new options now viable, this helps to reduce product development timelines and increases speed to market. Evidence of its relevance for the Shell business, SPARK Frictionless Data Access recently won the Shell.ai Data Impact Award. After being selected from 72 data impact team nominations and 600 nominations from across Shell, the programme is testament to the digital transformation journey in Shell and in the Lubricants and Fuels Technology organisation. Three tips for laying successful data foundations The data foundations that underpin Frictionless Data Access are set to play a vital role in the digitalisation of lubrication development at Shell. They also have the potential to transform operations and drive efficiency across other businesses and sectors. For any organisation looking to explore data foundations, there are three ways to make the process smoother: Start with the user Starting with the user is critical. You need an understanding of their pain points before beginning to address them. Your users can help you make sure that any solution is built to anticipate and meet the needs of customers. Work out what the IT requirements are before building Before diving straight into the development of your tools, it’s worth spending time clearly translating the user and business needs into IT requirements. It’s the digital equivalent of sharpening the axe before cutting the tree. It’ll also help you identify any existing tools that you can repurpose, instead of starting a new build. Demonstrate the value of data The easiest way to achieve real buy-in from the business is to demonstrate the value of your project with a well-defined use case that requires little investment but delivers huge value. This helps to build leadership confidence with a tangible example that highlights specific business benefits, rather than an abstract idea. Delivering a future built on data Shell’s Frictionless Data Access and SPARK story is far from over. Going beyond product development and testing, the team already has a keen focus on how digital technologies and data can help drive decarbonisation. One such example is how it can make sustainability efforts more traceable – using digital tools to calculate the avoided emissions in a lubricant product. This will give customers a clearer idea of their carbon footprint when selecting and using lubricants as part of their operations. And, with these insights, they can make more informed decisions for their business. “The current and future vision of the SPARK programme is to ensure we’re continually meeting the needs of our end customers,” says Gullapalli. “It will also continue to support our business strategy through digitally enabled R&D and technology solutions across the entire value chain.” It is yet another demonstration of the opportunities to drive performance and improve efficiency, that digitalisation can provide. No doubt you’ll be asking yourself what data your business has hiding, and how it can help you deliver more for your customers. Disclaimers 1 Deloitte, “The Digital Workplace Journey.”, deloitte.com, 2001 2 Deloitte, “The new knowledge management: Mining the collective intelligence.”, deloitte.com, 2021 3 Harvard Business Review. “Embracing Data Analytics for More Strategic Value.”, hbr.org, 2021 Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Four companies taking a new approach to sustainable manufacturing See the real-world examples that prove there is more than one way to achieve sustainable success. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. To make the business case for electrification, industrial businesses need methods to maximise the performance and efficiency of their EV fleets. E-fluids and e-greases are more than just a way to keep components like gearboxes and electric motors running smoothly. They contribute to the fundamental performance of an EV. E-transmission fluids, e-thermal fluids and e-greases provide protection and drive efficiency while offering the best compatibility with sensitive electrified components. E-thermal fluids based on immersive cooling technology protect battery cells from the effects of ultra-fast charging and discharging, which can enable more compact battery designs, extended range, and longer battery life — helping to drive down EV total cost of ownership. Formula E offers a case study for the journey towards more efficient EV technology, having improved battery performance significantly while demonstrating the potential for rapid charging to reduce equipment downtime. Christopher Dobrowolski, Associate Technology Manager of Shell E-Fluids, Shell Global Solutions An expert in the world of e-fluids, Christopher Dobrowolski is a key figure behind Shell’s ongoing development of lubrication solutions for electrification. Working alongside leading OEMs to drive R&D and shape the future of battery electric vehicles, Chris is at the forefront of the EV technology space. The challenge Faced with the difficult task of meeting increasingly strict sustainability targets, industrial businesses are looking to electrification as a way of decarbonising their fleets. However, concerns around performance and efficiency are still barriers that create a challenge for leaders looking to make the case for bringing EVs into their operations. The solution The efficiency and performance of each vehicle is critical. And the fill-for-life performance of e-fluids and e-greases offer an effective way to enhance the output of evolving battery technology. As well as preventing breakdowns that cause downtime, these specialised fluids extend component life and support rapid charging. They help businesses to drive the performance and efficiency of their electrified equipment – enabling them to make the business case for electrification and support their decarbonisation efforts. New powertrains need new lubricants It might come as a surprise to some that you still need lubricants to ensure the smooth running of an EV. “At the early stages of electrification, many thought that driving electric means no need for lubricants at all,” says Dobrowolski. “But there are good reasons to pay even more attention to detail when picking the right lubrication for EVs.” Many first- and second-generation EVs used conventional transmission fluids to lubricate their gearboxes. But this wasn’t an optimal way to advance the technology, or its efficiency. Instead, new lubricants – including e-fluids and e-greases – are now helping OEMs to design their hardware more effectively. An example of this can be seen in the latest generation of EVs. OEMs are combining the cooling system of the electric motor with the lubrication system of the gearbox to downsize and optimise hardware components. And this is only possible using specially designed transmission fluids. “From better thermal management that enables high-speed charging to more effective electric motors, e-fluids and e-greases are integral to driving performance and efficiency while extending component lifetime,” says Dobrowolski. “All of which makes e-mobility more attractive to end-user businesses.” E-fluids and e-greases explained In much the same way that premium engine oils make a significant difference to internal combustion engine (ICE) systems, e-fluids and e-greases are more than just a way to keep components running smoothly. There are three lubricant groups that work together to drive the efficiency of an EV’s electrified components: E-transmission fluids These fluids include transmission oils that protect the bearings and gears in a gearbox, as well as cooling electric motors. With more OEMs integrating electric motors into their gearboxes, e-fluids need to be compatible with both – lubricating the metal surfaces while providing efficient thermal management of the motor. E-thermal fluids These are liquids designed for immersive battery cooling. Dielectric fluids that are compatible with direct contact with a battery cell, they provide more effective heat transfer and electrical insulation than indirect cooling systems. This supports ultra-fast charging by effectively controlling the temperature of each individual cell, offering greater protection and performance – including longer lifetime and superior safety as compared to conventional side wall cooling methods. E-greases With electric motors running at incredibly high speeds, they need protection from the friction and wear this can cause. It’s also important to insulate the bearings in the motor from electrical currents that can lead to critical failures. This is where e-greases play a vital role, protecting and insulating components to keep them running optimally. In addition to providing protection and driving efficiency, these fluids are designed to deliver the highest possible compatibility with sensitive electrified components. “You can’t just apply any kind of transmission fluid, for example,” says Dobrowolski. “You really need to consider the whole chemical system of the lubricant. By reformulating it, you can make sure that it keeps a vehicle running effectively throughout its lifetime.” The importance of immersion cooling to EVs E-fluids can even contribute to the ongoing development of the EV hardware, with e-thermal fluids providing an effective example of how this can work. “When looking at improving the next generation of EVs, a key focus area is reduced charging times,” says Dobrowolski. “Customers want to spend less time charging their vehicles and they want to extend the range of their vehicles. To do that, you could increase the battery capacity, but that only adds more weight to the vehicle.” Not only are heavier vehicles likely to be less efficient when in operation, the batteries themselves will take longer to charge – potentially increasing downtime. Instead, Dobrowolski highlights how e-thermal fluids can help to deliver a more effective solution. “If you have a better way to keep the battery system cool through more efficient heat transfer, you can push it further in terms of performance and charging,” he explains. “This means you can design a more compact – yet still more efficient – battery. This saves weight, delivers higher ranges and helps businesses to charge their vehicles more quickly.” This can be critical for long haul distance travelling, either for passenger cars or heavy-duty electric vehicles, where rapid charging will be essential in extending their range without the need for additional enforced stops at charging points. Developing the future of electrification: OEM partnerships and learnings from Formula E Partnerships with cutting-edge OEMs are helping to accelerate the uptake of lubricant technologies like e-thermal fluids for EVs. “We have partnered up with companies like Kreisel Electric, one of the technology leaders in this space – and one of the first to adopt battery immersion technologies,” says Dobrowolski. “This type of collaboration will be essential to the development of EVs. Combining our expertise in fluids with their expertise in hardware will deliver the best possible solutions when designing the next generation of batteries.” And, while e-fluids and e-greases are set to contribute to the development of EV hardware that delivers greater efficiency and performance, that can be difficult to visualise. However, industrial businesses have an unlikely case study that shows how their electrification journey might play out: Formula E. “I think e-motorsports are an amazing showcase for the impact of innovation. In the early days of Formula E, you could see the limitations of the battery technology,” says Dobrowolski. “Because the battery capacity wasn’t there, drivers had to swap cars during the race to make sure they could reach the finish line.” Now though, they’re able to drive an entire race with the same car. The battery might be at <1-2% capacity by that point, but it’s a huge improvement on the need to use multiple vehicles to get the job done. Obviously, the needs of a Formula-E racing car are massively different to those of vehicles in use across construction sites, farms, and mines. But the move towards more efficient hardware, supported by specialised lubricants, will look largely the same. And OEMs are already taking note. Ultimately, by helping to extend vehicle ranges, extend component life and reduce downtime for charging, e-fluids and e-greases will contribute to efficiency and performance gains across industrial fleet operations. This helps businesses to make the case for electrification and supports the acceleration of their decarbonisation efforts. Glossary What is immersive cooling? Immersive direct cooling is a method of regulating temperatures in electrical components and provides a highly efficient alternative to air or other indirect cooling methods such as cold plates. It works by fully immersing the components in a thermally conductive, electrically non-conductive (dielectric) coolant to manage the heat generated by the immersed equipment when it’s in use. It is increasingly being sought after as a solution in data centres as a more efficient cooling solution for high performance computing infrastructure and in EVs to protect battery cells from the effects of ultra-fast charging and discharging, while also enabling extended range and longer battery life. BEV / EV Battery Electric Vehicle / Electric Vehicle FCEV Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle EDU Electric Drive Unit (combination of a gear reduction set with an electric motor) Disclaimers 1 Interact Analysis, “150% Growth By 2030 Projected For Off-Highway Electrified Components Market.” interactanalysis.com. 2021. Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Lubricants for Automotive Components Our lubricants for automotive components are designed to help enhance the performance of your finished products and factory operations. Find out more. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. The Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub consists of a team dedicated to long-term innovation – exploring how customer needs will change over the next 10 years today. The Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub team focuses on innovation led by five broad themes: co-engineering, digital, sustainability, product performance, and impactful demonstrations. Underpinned by a core program that includes expert capabilities in lubrication science, modelling, and evaluation of novel components. Collaboration and partnerships are a vital element of how the Shell Discovery Hub delivers its innovative solutions. The team works closely with a range of businesses, academics, and universities to create new projects and publish research. Despite the tension between short-term targets and long-term innovation, it’s important for Shell to have a team dedicated to anticipating future challenges and developing solutions in response. Without this, there would be no long-term options for product development – increasing the risk of disruption and making it harder to meet changing customer needs. Sarah Matthews, Team Lead, Lubricants Technology, Shell With more than 15 years of industry experience, Sarah manages the geographically and technically diverse team of scientists and engineers that make up the Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub team. With a doctorate from Oxford University, she’s a leading expert in lubricant technology research and development. The challenge It can be difficult to step away from day-to-day operations and explore what the future looks like for an organisation. But a focus on short-term results can often come at the cost of long-term innovation and success. The solution For some businesses, collaborating with start-ups and entrepreneurs is the way to drive their longer-term innovation. At Shell, however, the collaboration happens in-house with the Shell Discovery Hub, a dedicated team created to drive long-term innovation and develop the lubricant technologies of the future. Going behind the scenes of the Shell Discovery Hub Created in 2012 to focus more time and effort on innovation, the Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub is a unique part of the wider Shell business. Its mission is to address challenges that require new thinking, exploring what the lubricants landscape will look like over the next decade and beyond – while meeting the needs of customers today. “We’re a team that’s dedicated to scouting future opportunities,” explains Sarah Matthews, the Team Lead for Lubricants Technology at Shell. “Within a 10-year time horizon, we proactively scout and share those foresights, we build fundamental knowledge and share those insights with the wider lubricants community, to help deliver innovative solutions for the future.” Alongside providing these insights, the team plays a key role in enhancing Shell’s technology leadership by publishing research papers, attending significant conferences or events, and showcasing their innovations to external audiences. “We also work closely with some of our key customers to develop our shared understanding of future challenges,” says Matthews. “Together, we create technical solutions that not only provide the basis for new products and services but also really strengthen our relationships with our partners.” For Matthews, having a team dedicated to long-term lubricants innovation is essential. “I think we need a team that has the space to think, reflect and really take time to define the research questions that we want to answer,” she says. “And from that, we can explore the output that we want to deliver to our product and service development teams. It’s vital we have a full pipeline of mid- to long-term options ready for them to work with.” Helping to build the business case for that approach is the fact that companies with a long-term mindset typically see 47% more growth than those focused on the short term.1 But that doesn’t necessarily reduce the tension between short-term targets and long-term success. “It does require a bit of discipline to retain that focus when we know that the business has more immediate needs,” says Matthews. “But without the Shell Discovery Hub, we don't have a funnel of options for future product development. It's important that we’re looking ahead, anticipating the problems and opportunities we may face – and creating the innovative solutions that meet our customers’ long-term needs.” Exploring the lubricant technology of tomorrow As Matthews highlights, the Shell Discovery Hub’s focus goes beyond the next development cycle for products and services. “The aim is to deliver innovative new solutions that our development teams can use to create the lubricants and services of tomorrow,” she explains. Laying the foundations for product and service development isn’t the only way the team contributes to the wider lubricants business. They also create new experimental methods and mathematical modelling techniques to support product claims and troubleshoot issues encountered in the field. “For us, it's really about delivering value to our product and service development teams,” Matthews continues. “That can be anything, from passenger car engine oils to thermal fluids for battery cooling and transmission to sensor technology for effective oil condition monitoring. We work across the entire lubricants portfolio.” To achieve this, the Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub builds its projects around a set of innovation led themes, including: Co-engineering Digital Sustainability Product Performance Impactful Demonstrations These broad areas make sure that each project links back to the customer need – even if the customers don’t yet know they have those needs. “So, for example, we’ll explore elements like the control of friction and wear, extending oil life and enhancing energy efficiency,” says Matthews. “And key insights that have come from this process include a better understanding of fluid requirements in both electric vehicles (EVs) and engines that run on alternative fuels.” Over time, the innovation themes have evolved alongside Shell’s lubricants strategy and will continue to do so. How the Shell Discovery Hub delivers for development teams It’s important to emphasise the customer impact of the work that the Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub team does. Despite their long-term view of lubrication, their projects aren’t just a future-gazing exercise. Every innovation is designed to eventually deliver real-world value to Shell customers. An example of this is the co-engineering collaborations between the Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub and key customers. Delivering innovative research programmes of mutual interest to Shell and key customers, has expanded both the teams’ technical knowledge and put Shell in a better position to meet future business requirements. The Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub’s collaborative approach also sees the team working with three key strategic university partners: Imperial College London, MIT and Tsinghua University. The relationship with Imperial College London has yielded positive results and has led to the creation of more than 20 research projects and the presentation of more than 50 research papers. Embedded within the university, the Shell Lubricants Discovery Hub team works closely with several departments to solve significant technology challenges and help to deliver next-generation lubricant products. So far, this collaboration has poured its expertise into: Fully sustainable water-based lubricants Optimised battery charging and cooling for EVs Greases formulated from calcium (to reduce the world’s dependence on lithium for batteries) “I'm proud of these collaborations. I think they really help us to deliver much more in the innovation space,” says Matthews. “Whether we’re thinking about fuel efficiency, oil durability or effective battery thermal management to support electrification, lubricant requirements are becoming more demanding. That’s why we work closely with our customers, partners and development teams to co-engineer solutions that overcome their biggest technical challenges.” Where next for the team exploring the future of lubrication? So what innovations can customers expect to see emerging in the coming years? For Matthews, decarbonisation will be a critical driver for the team as every industry works to achieve their net-zero targets. “Our focus on sustainability is what really underpins our recently refreshed lubricant strategy,” she explains. “Whether it’s our choice of raw materials to reduce the carbon intensity of products or the exploration of new opportunities for circularity to reduce waste, this innovation theme is already a significant driving force behind our projects, and we’ll see the results of that arrive in our mid- to long-term portfolio.” Electrification is another key area for the Shell Discovery Hub as the teams works on new performance fluids and battery cooling solutions, all designed to make it easier for businesses to make the switch to EVs. Wherever the future takes the Shell Discovery Hub team, their expertise and dedication to long-term innovation means they’ll have mapped any changes coming and will be prepared with an array of solutions designed to meet the customer needs of tomorrow. Disclaimers 1 Forbes. “Short-Termism Is Hurting Companies And Costing Lives.” 2022 Our Perspectives Content Hub The world is changing, and new ways of thinking and working are needed to enable businesses to transform and decarbonise. Our ‘Perspectives’ content hub shares insights and ideas to help business leaders realise the potential of their people and organisation. Lubricants for Automotive Components Our lubricants for automotive components are designed to help enhance the performance of your finished products and factory operations. Find out more. How a skills gap is holding up digital transformation in construction Explore the paradox preventing construction businesses from investing in machine control and automation technologies. Make your equipment as hard-working as you are The success of your business depends on your ability to maximise productivity and manage the total cost of ownership across your equipment operations. Shell Driveline helps you achieve this with a suite of high-performance lubricants and services that keep your vehicles and machines running efficiently and reliably. Fleet Travelling huge distances (often in extreme temperatures and weather conditions), on-highway fleet vehicles need looking after to keep them on the road as much as possible. Shell Driveline helps operators by enabling them to increase power output and extend service intervals – reducing fuel consumption and unplanned downtime, to deliver the best total cost of ownership. Construction Meeting tight deadlines in harsh conditions, construction teams need the ability to prevent avoidable breakdowns, unplanned maintenance costs, and expensive replacements. Shell Driveline provides site operators with the lubricants and expert advice they need to operate productively by increasing uptime, minimising downtime, and extending the life of their equipment. Agriculture Working to maximise yields in tough environments, agricultural operators need their equipment out in the fields and not in the repair shed – especially during peak sowing and harvesting periods. Shell Driveline makes sure the machines do not let them down – equipping farmers with the lubricants and services to keep their vehicles working as productively as possible. Why maintenance and lubrication matters Avoidable costs and delays are an all-too common occurrence, with many companies suffering unexpected costs due to unreliable equipment. Working with a trusted partner to provide effective maintenance and lubrication can help operators to cut these costs, improve productivity, and set their businesses up for success. Failure to prioritise maintenance Many operators admit that maintenance is not prioritised until their equipment breaks down. Cost concerns Maintenance teams are constantly under pressure to deliver greater results while cutting costs. Lack of senior support Across the sectors, equipment maintenance is often not sufficiently valued by senior management. Knowledge gaps Companies often do not realise the impact that effective lubrication can have on equipment productivity. Lack of in-house expertise Many operators need additional training for their teams to avoid breakdowns and unplanned maintenance. Insufficient external support Maintenance teams often struggle to find external partners with the expertise needed to deliver value. Solutions for better operations We help you to overcome these barriers and increase the productivity of your machine operations. Calling on our extensive network of experts, we work with you to demonstrate the business value of effective maintenance, improve the efficiency of your maintenance teams and deliver training to build your in-house skill base. Fleets of the Future Learn more about how fleet operators can make the most of Industry 4.0 technologies to drive efficiency and productivity. Download our Fleet infographic Equipment maintenance in construction Discover the significant impact that effective equipment maintenance can have on profitability in construction. Download our Construction infographic Farming Productivity Find out how farmers can overcome their maintenance challenges to drive productivity in agriculture. Download our Agriculture infographic Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Tellus The Shell Tellus range of transmission and axle oils keeps your equipment running smoothly day in, day out. As well as providing 75% better sludge protection, it lasts up to 3x longer than industry standards – offering better performance and lower consumption. Shell Gadus Providing your equipment with effective multi-purpose protection, the Shell Gadus range of greases improves the reliability of your fleet. It delivers lasting protection and helps your machines to perform at their best for longer. Driveline for fleet Find out how on-highway fleet operators can increase their overall productivity and cost efficiency – using high-quality lubrication to improve fuel economy, reduce downtime, and keep vehicles on the road for longer. Driveline for construction Find out how construction companies can keep their equipment operating at peak performance all year round, and even in the harshest of conditions, by making effective lubrication a central part of the maintenance mix. Driveline for agriculture Find out how agricultural operators can overcome the challenges of rising production demands, unpredictable conditions, and unexpected equipment downtime through a smarter approach to machine maintenance. Put your potential in motion The success of your operations relies on your ability to keep your equipment working efficiently and reliably – often in challenging conditions. Discover how our portfolio of lubricants and services helps you to improve productivity, reduce operating costs, and lower your carbon emissions. Optimise your lubrication programme Lubricants might only account for 1-2% of your maintenance costs, but they can have a significant positive impact on your operations. By using the right combination of lubricants and services tailored to your business needs, you can improve the productivity of your vehicles and equipment – saving up to 30% of your operating costs. Expect more from your equipment From heavy-duty engine oils to multi-purpose greases, our wide range of lubricants keep your equipment operating at peak performance for longer. As well as increasing uptime, they help to reduce the costs of maintenance and extend equipment life. Improving fuel economy and lowering emissions, they help your operations to be more efficient, productive, and sustainable. Turn difficulty into opportunity It might not be possible to eliminate problems entirely, but it is possible to see them coming and take preventative action – avoiding any unplanned and disruptive downtime. From oil analysis and training to expert advice delivered on-site or online, our end-to-end services help you to maximise equipment uptime, improve your profitability, and take advantage of new opportunities. How to keep equipment running all year round How do your machines handle the stresses and strains of operating in harsh environments? Watch our videos below to see the positive impact high-quality hydraulic fluids and greases can have on the efficiency and reliability of your equipment – even as seasonal changes create unpredictable working conditions. 1 Proven to deliver 150,000 km oil drain intervals based on Daimler specification MB 228.5 or 228.51. 2 Compared with a typical 10W-40 oil over a 100,000 km oil drain interval. 3 When compared to mineral reference oil. 4 Compared with ASTM D2070 test limit 5 Compared using TOST and RPVOT tests 6 ASTM D7109 7 Caterpillar Oil Aeration Test 8 Shell Rimula R5 LE 10W-30 demonstrated fuel economy of up to 1.6% in on the road testing compared to 15W-40 oils and SAE 10W-40 demonstrated fuel economy of up to 1.0% in MAN Euro 4 engines compared to 15W-40 oils using city drive cycles. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Tellus The Shell Tellus range of transmission and axle oils keeps your equipment running smoothly day in, day out. As well as providing 75% better sludge protection, it lasts up to 3x longer than industry standards – offering better performance and lower consumption. Shell Gadus Providing your equipment with effective multi-purpose protection, the Shell Gadus range of greases improves the reliability of your fleet. It delivers lasting protection and helps your machines to perform at their best for longer. Shell LubeAnalyst Prevent breakdowns with our early warning system for potential oil or equipment failures Find out more Shell LubeMatch Find the right lubricants for your equipment with our free online tool. Find out more Shell LubeChat Get answers to your most pressing lubrication questions with our online chat tool Find out more Shell LubeAdvisor Improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs with oil advice from the Shell experts Find out more Shell LubeCoach Improve your team’s performance with our in-depth lubrication training programme Find out more Shell LubeVideoCheck Reduce operating costs and downtime by inspecting the inside of your engine without dismantling it and catching potential issues early. Find out more Driveline for fleet Find out how on-highway fleet operators can increase their overall productivity and cost efficiency – using high-quality lubrication to improve fuel economy, reduce downtime, and keep vehicles on the road for longer. Driveline for construction Find out how construction companies can keep their equipment operating at peak performance all year round, and even in the harshest of conditions, by making effective lubrication a central part of the maintenance mix. Driveline for agriculture Find out how agricultural operators can overcome the challenges of rising production demands, unpredictable conditions, and unexpected equipment downtime through a smarter approach to machine maintenance. Maintaining a modern agricultural fleet Faced with rising demand for production, agricultural operators cannot afford unexpected downtime for their equipment. Watch our video to see why a smarter approach to maintenance is vital for combatting unpredictable conditions and creating a platform for successful agricultural operations. Prevent engine issues caused by deposits and sludge Effective lubrication prevents the build-up of piston deposits and crankcase sludge, keeping your engine running as smoothly as possible for as long as possible in even the harshest of conditions. Control engine wear in every environment Working in wet or dusty environments – as well as high or low temperatures – puts your engine at risk of wear. Avoid this with lubrication that forms a protective film over the key components in your equipment. Protect against combustion corrosion Without the right lubrication, simply starting your engine can be a common cause of corrosion. Protect your machinery’s pistons and cylinders from rapid wear to reduce downtime and maintenance costs. Extend equipment life and productivity The daily operation of your machinery exposes it to a range of unwanted contaminants. Effective lubrication helps to fight these off and prevent the issues they cause – meaning a longer equipment life and greater productivity. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Tellus The Shell Tellus range of transmission and axle oils keeps your equipment running smoothly day in, day out. As well as providing 75% better sludge protection, it lasts up to 3x longer than industry standards – offering better performance and lower consumption. Shell Gadus Providing your equipment with effective multi-purpose protection, the Shell Gadus range of greases improves the reliability of your fleet. It delivers lasting protection and helps your machines to perform at their best for longer. 1 ASTM D7109 2 Caterpillar Oil Aeration Test 3 Shell Rimula R5 LE 10W-30 demonstrated fuel economy of up to 1.6% in on the road testing compared to 15W-40 oils and SAE 10W-40 demonstrated fuel economy of up to 1.0% in MAN Euro 4 engines compared to 15W-40 oils using city drive cycles 4 Compared with ASTM D2070 test limit 5 Compared using TOST and RPVOT tests Shell LubeAnalyst Prevent breakdowns with our early warning system for potential oil or equipment failures Find out more Shell LubeMatch Find the right lubricants for your equipment with our free online tool. Find out more Shell LubeChat Get answers to your most pressing lubrication questions with our online chat tool Find out more Shell LubeAdvisor Improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs with oil advice from the Shell experts Find out more Shell LubeCoach Improve your team’s performance with our in-depth lubrication training programme Find out more Shell LubeVideoCheck Reduce operating costs and downtime by inspecting the inside of your engine without dismantling it and catching potential issues early. Find out more Driveline for fleet Find out how on-highway fleet operators can increase their overall productivity and cost efficiency – using high-quality lubrication to improve fuel economy, reduce downtime, and keep vehicles on the road for longer. Driveline for construction Find out how construction companies can keep their equipment operating at peak performance all year round, and even in the harshest of conditions, by making effective lubrication a central part of the maintenance mix. Driveline for agriculture Find out how agricultural operators can overcome the challenges of rising production demands, unpredictable conditions, and unexpected equipment downtime through a smarter approach to machine maintenance. Effective lubrication for improved productivity Keeping your equipment operating at peak performance all year round, and even in unforgiving environments, is essential. Watch our video to see why effective lubrication is a vital part of the maintenance mix for construction companies. Protect equipment from harsh conditions Working in dusty and dirty conditions, construction equipment can suffer breakdowns due to a build-up of soot, carbon deposits, and acids. Effective lubrication protects machines against this, helping to avoid downtime. Weatherproof machines to avoid downtime Blocked oil galleries can lead to equipment failure and lost production time. Weatherproofing your machines helps to prevent this issue and keeps your equipment running at peak performance for longer. Prevent wear and tear from high-friction loads Handling high-friction loads day in, day out is a common cause of wear and tear on your equipment. Effective lubrication protects your machines against this to help keep your operations running smoothly and improve site productivity. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Tellus The Shell Tellus range of transmission and axle oils keeps your equipment running smoothly day in, day out. As well as providing 75% better sludge protection4, it lasts up to 3x longer than industry standards5 – offering better performance and lower consumption. Shell Gadus Providing your equipment with effective multi-purpose protection, the Shell Gadus range of greases improves the reliability of your fleet. It delivers lasting protection and helps your machines to perform at their best for longer. Shell Spirax Delivering outstanding anti-wear performance, the Shell Spirax range of gear oils provides you with a lubrication solution for all seasons. As well as improving productivity through extended oil drain intervals, it helps you to reduce your maintenance costs by extending component life. 1 ASTM D7109 2 Caterpillar Oil Aeration Test 3 Shell Rimula R5 LE 10W-30 demonstrated fuel economy of up to 1.6% in on the road testing compared to 15W-40 oils and SAE 10W-40 demonstrated fuel economy of up to 1.0% in MAN Euro 4 engines compared to 15W-40 oils using city drive cycles 4 Compared with ASTM D2070 test limit 5 Compared using TOST and RPVOT tests Shell LubeAnalyst Prevent breakdowns with our early warning system for potential oil or equipment failures Find out more Shell LubeMatch Find the right lubricants for your equipment with our free online tool. Find out more Shell LubeChat Get answers to your most pressing lubrication questions with our online chat tool Find out more Shell LubeAdvisor Improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs with oil advice from the Shell experts Find out more Shell LubeCoach Improve your team’s performance with our in-depth lubrication training programme Find out more Shell LubeVideoCheck Reduce operating costs and downtime by inspecting the inside of your engine without dismantling it and catching potential issues early. Find out more Driveline for fleet Find out how on-highway fleet operators can increase their overall productivity and cost efficiency – using high-quality lubrication to improve fuel economy, reduce downtime, and keep vehicles on the road for longer. Driveline for agriculture Find out how agricultural operators can overcome the challenges of rising production demands, unpredictable conditions, and unexpected equipment downtime through a smarter approach to machine maintenance. Introduction to Driveline Find out how Shell Driveline helps you to overcome your biggest equipment maintenance challenges – enabling you to maximise uptime, reduce operating costs, and drive greater productivity through high-quality lubricants and services. Driving fleet efficiency with effective lubrication For on-highway fleet operators, maintenance is vital in managing each vehicle’s overall health – and its productivity during busy periods. Watch our video to see how Shell Lubricant Solutions can work with you to improve the cost efficiency of your fleet in the short and long term. Cool components to improve fuel economy When components like axles and gearboxes run hot, they produce more friction and require more fuel to operate. Using the right lubrication helps to avoid this, providing effective cooling to improve fuel economy. Avoid breakdowns with enhanced wear protection Components at high-pressure points – such as the valve train – are vulnerable to wear, which can lead to equipment breakdown. Using fluids with enhanced wear protection prevents this and keeps your vehicles out on the road for longer. Prevent engine issues caused by deposits and sludge Effective lubrication prevents the build-up of piston deposits and crankcase sludge, keeping your engine running as smoothly as possible for as long as possible in even the harshest of conditions. Protect engines against combustion corrosion The gases and acids generated during combustion can cause corrosion in your engine if left unchecked. Effective lubrication can neutralise this to prevent breakdowns, reduce downtime, and improve engine lifetime. Truck & Tractor Engine Oils – Shell Rimula Our scientists developed Shell Rimula heavy-duty diesel engine oils, designed to protect your engine, helping you lower maintenance. Shell Spirax Delivering up to 3x longer oil life and greater energy efficiency3, the Shell Spirax range of gear and axle oils keeps your vehicles running at their best, stop after stop. As well as increasing the mechanical efficiency of your fleet, it also helps to prevent premature failures and unplanned maintenance costs. Shell Gadus Providing your equipment with effective multi-purpose protection, the Shell Gadus range of greases improves the reliability of your fleet. It delivers lasting protection and helps your machines to perform at their best for longer. 1 Proven to deliver 150,000 km oil drain intervals based on Daimler specification MB 228.5 or 228.51. 2 Compared with a typical 10W-40 oil over a 100,000 km oil drain interval. 3 When compared to mineral reference oil. Shell LubeAnalyst Prevent breakdowns with our early warning system for potential oil or equipment failures Find out more Shell LubeMatch Find the right lubricants for your equipment with our free online tool. Find out more Shell LubeChat Get answers to your most pressing lubrication questions with our online chat tool Find out more Shell LubeAdvisor Improve efficiency and reduce your operating costs with oil advice from the Shell experts Find out more Shell LubeCoach Improve your team’s performance with our in-depth lubrication training programme Find out more Shell LubeVideoCheck Reduce operating costs and downtime by inspecting the inside of your engine without dismantling it and catching potential issues early. Find out more Driveline for agriculture Find out how agricultural operators can overcome the challenges of rising production demands, unpredictable conditions, and unexpected equipment downtime through a smarter approach to machine maintenance. Driveline for construction Find out how construction companies can keep their equipment operating at peak performance all year round, and even in the harshest of conditions, by making effective lubrication a central part of the maintenance mix. Introduction to Driveline Find out how Shell Driveline helps you to overcome your biggest equipment maintenance challenges – enabling you to maximise uptime, reduce operating costs, and drive greater productivity through high-quality lubricants and services. REACH for Shell Lubricants Supply ChainIf you have a REACH query about a Shell Lubricants product please contact our regulatory chemistry team on lubricantSDS@shell.com and they can help with your specific query. Shell Lubricant Services Explore the insights, innovation and collaboration that have helped inform our suite of lubricant services, and see how they can help move your business forward. Shell Lubricant Solutions Sustainability Achieving sustainability without sacrificing business performance. Industrial Lubricants and Oils for Business Find out about the expert advice, support and case studies we provide through our lubricant-related services that are helping companies like yours every day. Shell Fleet SolutionsShell is providing fit-for-purpose fleet management solutions for Indian customers through a deep understanding of their needs and on-ground challenges to help them get the most out of their fleets. Shell’s fleet solutions bring together our global experience and expertise, cutting-edge technology, world-class innovation and research and exceptional customer service to offer the ‘Shell Advantage’ to Indian fleet owners. With a portfolio of products and services, comprising of Quality differentiated fuels, Fleet card and Telematics – Shell’s Fleet offer provides wide-ranging benefits including control over operations, protection against fraud, convenience, all geared towards bringing efficiencies and reducing their total cost of operations/ownership. Shell Telematics This uses the latest vehicle-tracking technology to gather real-time insights on the performance and transaction data of your fleet. Shell Fleet Prepaid Simplify your expense management and monitor your fleetʼs expenditures with one swipe of the card. Diesel by Shell Enhanced with Dynaflex Technology, it cleans, protects and improves the efficiency of the engine. Drive Carbon Neutral For the first time in India, you and your fleet can drive carbon neutral by offsetting carbon emissions in a simple and cost-effective way with Shell Fleet Prepaid! We take care of everything while you achieve your Sustainability Goals. Shell Fleet Solutions Supplementary Privacy Statement Add and block cards Track transactions and fuel expenses View invoices Site Locator makes it simple for your drivers to plan routes and find our retail sites Order multiple cards and set up card groups Set PIN codes and add Fleet ID verification as an added layer of security Create card restriction profiles to control: Times when cards can be used Products and services for purchase Spend by day, week, or month Locations where cards can be used by country, network or discount group Real-time detection Instant alerts so you can block cards Secure sites CCTV at many sites and our ‘fast finding’ process to help you quickly identify possible fraudsters Vigilant staff Our people are trained to spot signs of fraud and immediately report any suspicious activity Instant card activity reports Allowing you to block cards immediately if you see suspicious card activity Efficiency Solutions to help you drive up efficiency include high quality fuels, driver behaviour analysis and fraud prevention. Transparency You can see all pricing, fees and rebates online , so they are easy to manage. Competitive commercial terms On top of competitive pricing, we also offer incremental tiers of volume-based rebates. One stop for all your drivers’ needs including a range of innovative fuels, lubricants, coolants, vehicle care, fresh food and beverages. One partner for fuel and fleet management Apply NowOur customer service team comes with multi-lingual support and are available 24x7. Each one is picked carefully and undergoes advanced customer management training, so you enjoy the advantage of top-class service always. Contact info : fleetsolutions-India@shell.com Customer Care : +91 44 6132 0460Diesel by Shell Business value ¹ Lower fuel and operating costs Vehicle efficiency and reliability Reduced environmental Impact Reduced down and idle time ¹As experienced by some customers rather than Shell protocols. Benefits will vary according to type of operation, vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. In heavy-duty engines up to and including Euro III. How you can benefit ² Better fuel economy – by up to 3% More torque and load-pulling power when needed Lower exhaust CO2 emissions and black smoke4 Reduced refuelling time and risk of spillage Reduced maintenance and risk of breakdown ²Compared to regular diesel without fuel economy formula. Actual savings may vary according to vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. Internal Shell tests and with our customers have shown a range of fuel savings depending on age of vehicle and type of operations. ²Compared to regular diesel without fuel economy formula. Actual savings may vary according to vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. Internal Shell tests and with our customers have shown a range of fuel savings depending on age of vehicle and type of operations. ¹Shell Diesel helps improve oxidation stability and keep fuel more stable in presence of bio components. It is designed to help you use fuels with bio components and reduce risk of fuel degradation and sludge build-up – therefore helping improve equipment reliability. As experienced by some customers rather than Shell protocols. Benefits will vary according to type of operation, vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. WHAT IS SPECIAL IN DYNAFLEX? Exclusive Dual Detergent Technology The formulation contains two new detergent chemistries not just one as we had before It is designed for new engine technologies (including Euro 5/6) as well as older ones and will therefore work in fleets with all ages of vehicles The new formulation outperforms the previous one in our engine tests LOWER OPERATING COSTS AND REDUCED DOWNTIME 1 Fuels are not naturally corrosive, but rust can form on metal parts when water and oxygen are present. WHAT YOU GET Corrosion inhibitor Reduced maintenance Reduced risk of breakdown ¹As experienced by some customers rather than Shell protocols. Benefits will vary according to type of operation, vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. LOWER OPERATING COSTS AND REDUCED DOWNTIME ² Diesel fuel has a natural tendency to produce foam, which takes up tank space and slows down the refuelling process. WHAT YOU GET Anti-foam agent Reduced refuelling time Less risk of spillage ²Compared to regular diesel without fuel economy formula. Actual savings may vary according to vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. Internal Shell tests and with our customers have shown a range of fuel savings depending on age of vehicle and type of operations. EASIER HOUSEKEEPING 1 Diesel fuels can retain some moisture. WHAT YOU GET Dehazing action Enables good water separation Keeps fuel free from water contamination ¹As experienced by some customers rather than Shell protocols. Benefits will vary according to type of operation, vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. REDUCED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ¹ Build-up of deposits in the injector nozzles can lead to less efficient combustion and in turn higher exhaust CO2 emissions and black smoke1. WHAT YOU GET New clean-up effect More efficient combustion Lower CO2 emissions and black smoke¹ ¹In heavy-duty engines up to and including Euro III. As experienced by some customers rather than Shell protocols. Benefits will vary according to type of operation, vehicle, driving conditions and driving style. Shell Telematics for BusinessMaster your fleet. Savings at your fingertips. Your fleet’s one-stop telematics solution Shell Telematics gives you all the insight you need to help get the best out of your fleet. By combining Shell Card and vehicle data, our end-to-end solution makes it simple to do everything from spotting card fraud through to tracking delivery progress and monitoring driver behaviour. You can choose the package of features that will work best for your business and it’s all managed through a user-friendly portal and app. Whatever the size or type of your fleet, Shell Telematics is an easy, cost-effective way to make better-informed decisions to help bring down your Total Cost of Ownership (TCO), as well as be complaint with AIS 140 mandate. Compliance with AIS 140 mandate The Government of India has directed all state governments to enforce the standard of AIS 140 compliant GPS vehicle tracking devices with the supporting software for all passenger carrying buses and other public transport vehicles. The Ministry of Road Transport and highways (MoRTH) stated that the installation of AIS 140 certified vehicle tracking system along with the emergency button should be mandatory in all new public/passenger and commercial vehicles with a national permit. Shell Telematics devices are AIS 140 compliant with ARAI/ICAT certification. Control Fuel expenses Detect potential fuel theft View accurate and real-time information of fuel level View automatic mileage reporting Identify areas to improve mileage Integrate with fuel card to detect fuel fraud Passenger, driver and vehicle safety Receive alerts for route deviation, unauthorized stops, geofence exit, over-speeding, harsh driving etc Panic button integration Manage driving behaviour View Driver scorecard to rank drivers based on driving behaviour Receive Insights on driving behaviour to improve fuel efficiency and safety, and provide performance linked rewards Reduce operational work Receive alerts for timely service of vehicles and renewal of insurance, permit, tax payment etc Fuel Fraud Detection Accurate and real-time information of fuel level and integration with fuel card helps to detect any fraudulent activities Live map Track live location and movement of all vehicles with satellite map view, Google Street View and live traffic information. Journey history Review all journeys made with date, time, start and finish locations, drive time and distance travelled. Driver management Rate each driver‘s driving behaviour score based on the length and severity of the speeding, acceleration, idling time and braking events. Vehicle performance Get timely maintenance reminders and fuel-efficiency reports. Geofence Set up geo-fencing to get alerts based on needs – e.g. alerts when vehicle leaves city limits. Online Portal Our easy-to-use portal gives you 24/7 access to your data so you have complete visibility of your fleet’s real-time and historical activity. App Our app provides access to Live Map and journey history data. Available for both Android and iOS. Device management Edit information stored against device including driver names, contact details, vehicle information and linked fuel cards. Choose the package that works for you With our bundle options, you can pick the level of data that works best for your business and your budget – and Shell Card monitoring is always available. Fleet Tracker Bundle Track and trace vehicle location Driver behavior updates Vehicle service reminders Fuel Bundle Fleet Tracker bundle + Real time accurate fuel monitoring Safety Bundle Fleet tracker bundle + Panic button integration and alerts Comprehensive Bundle Fuel bundle + Safety bundle Disclaimer Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd makes no warranty, expressed or implied, as to the results obtained from the use of the information on the website. Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd shall have no liability for the accuracy of the information and cannot be held liable for any third-party claims or losses of any damages. The user shall have the right to view the information and usage for the purpose for which it is intended and disclosed. If user finds that trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents or other industrial property rights are disputed or infringed by a third party, user shall promptly inform Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd and shall assist Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd in taking necessary steps to protect its rights. The information contained in this web site does not constitute a confirmed offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any product or service; and should not be relied upon in connection with any investment decision. Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd may, at any time, revise the information on this web site without notice and makes no commitment to update this information. Apply for Shell TelematicsContact us today and let us help you enhance your fleet’s performance. Leave your details here and we will call you back! Shell Fleet Solutions Supplementary Privacy StatementThis Privacy Statement supplements the Privacy Notice - Business Customers, Suppliers and Business Partners available at www.shell.com/privacy.html and in your location at www.shell.in/privacy. What does this supplementary Privacy Statement cover? This supplementary Privacy Statement provides information about personal data which are collected and processed in connection with the services provided by Shell Fleet Solutions business including the Shell Fuel Card (‘SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES’) as well as your visits to Shell websites related to the Shell Fleet Solutions Services. For all other interaction with a company or companies within the Shell group of companies (‘Shell’) please refer to the relevant privacy notice at www.shell.com/privacy.html and from the Shell website in your location. Source of data If you have not provided your personal data directly to Shell, Shell has obtained your personal data from your employing or contracting company or from your leasing or fleet management company. What personal data do we process about you? In addition to the personal data set out in the relevant privacy notice referred to above and depending on the exact services used by you and your company, Shell may process some or all of the following types of data: user ids, marketing and language preferences; Director’s (and other associated persons’) details including name and date of birth where these are required for trade compliance, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery and corruption purposes / credit checking; Transaction details including driver’s name, card number, vehicle identifier, products purchased, date, time and location; CCTV images at Shell Retail locations for safety, security, fraud management and operational purposes; Who is responsible for any personal data collected? Your local Shell Fleet Solutions contracting company: Shell India Markets Private Limited, 7, Bengaluru Hardware Park KIADB Industrial Park North, Mahadeva Kodigehalli, Bengaluru, Karnataka 562149, and affiliated companies within the Shell group of companies. For what purposes do we process your personal data? As well as the purposes set out in the relevant privacy notice referred to above Personal Data supplied by a customer to apply to use the SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES and/or collected through the use of SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES, will be processed for the purposes of; processing the application; establishing a cardholder’s identity if requested by your employing or contracting company; completing credit checks in relation to key individuals per customer such as company directors. We do not credit check each individual cardholder; operating the account(s) and facilitating access to and use of the online services relating to the SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES; assessing and/or reviewing the card status and/or purchase record of the Shell Fuel Card on an ongoing basis; monitoring volume and spend information; registration for other related services and different payment methods (e.g. mobile payments via the Shell App); for safety and security reasons, in particular, to protect the personnel and assets of Shell and its customers and to protect our customers when using products with special handling requirements e.g. Hydrogen. Additional information for users of Telematics services If your vehicle is fitted with a Shell issued telematics device, Shell may also collect information about: your vehicle’s location which can be used to calculate e.g. vehicle speed, route taken; whether the vehicle is stopped; your vehicle’s acceleration, deceleration (braking) and cornering; whether the seat belt is used; information from your vehicle’s engine (e.g. engine speed), electrical system (e.g. battery voltage) and warning system (e.g. engine warning light on); vehicle refuelling or charging. Shell may use these data in combination with other data we hold about you, e.g. fuel card transactions, to provide analysis requested by your employing or engaging company to better understand driving style, safety, vehicle performance and routing information. Communication and Marketing You may receive offers on behalf of the relevant business customer. On all occasions you or your company’s authorised representative will be given the opportunity to use the unsubscribe functionality through the different digital channels we use to interact with you. For more information please refer to the Privacy Notice - Business Customers, Suppliers and Business Partners mentioned above. Credit Checks When processing an application and during the term of any SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES agreement, we may assess the creditworthiness of the company/business applying, as well as that of key individual(s) associated with that business e.g. company directors. We use authorized third party credit checking agencies for this purpose who will use credit scoring or other automated decision-making processes; and records held by credit reference agencies. If you have any queries please refer to the Contact Details section below. Who will we share your personal data with? In addition to the categories of recipients set out in the relevant privacy notice referred to above your personal data may be shared with: the company (that is the SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES customer) which ordered the SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES on your behalf; the participants involved in providing the SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES, such as the retailers, authorised toll service providers and/or any other company that is permitted to supply products and/or services to SHELL FLEET SOLUTIONS SERVICES users; credit reference, screening and/or fraud prevention agencies as well as referees, guarantors or other persons providing references or security in relation to your business’s obligations; customer’s third party partners - in the event your company has chosen to work with a third party service provider (e.g. fleet management companies, leasing companies), for the purpose of enabling the third party to provide the services you require (e.g. management information, consolidated invoicing). How long do we hold your personal data for? Shell will only hold your personal data for as long as is necessary to meet business, legal or fiscal requirements. Personal data contained in invoices, transaction files, correspondence with customers and requests to issue new fuel cards - 10 years; Contracts (which contain contact details) - the life of the contract plus 20 years; Other contact data and cardholder data – life of contract plus 4 years; Telematics data – 3 years Who can you contact if you have a query, concern or complaint about your personal data? You can contact Shell Fleet Solutions Customer Service Center at fleetsolutions-india@shell.com or +91 44 6132 0460. Changes to this supplementary Privacy Statement This supplementary Privacy Statement and the Privacy Notice - Business Customers, Suppliers and Business Partners may change over time. This supplementary Privacy Statement was last updated in June 2020. Shell Telematics This uses the latest vehicle-tracking technology to gather real-time insights on the performance and transaction data of your fleet. Shell Fleet Prepaid Simplify your expense management and monitor your fleetʼs expenditures with one swipe of the card. Diesel by Shell Enhanced with Dynaflex Technology, it cleans, protects and improves the efficiency of the engine. Showcase climate leadership Climate Leaders are those who are pushing the limit for what companies or organizations can do to combat climate change. Appeal to your customers and employees Create new sustainable products and inspire your workforce to engage with carbon reduction activities. Meet your carbon emissions commitments We can provide you with energy products bundled with carbon credits to help you meet your goals. Create long-term sustainability value for your business Investing in offsetting emissions will help you shape a more sustainable energy future. 1 “Carbon neutral” indicates that Shell engaged in a transaction where an amount of CO₂ equivalent to the CO₂e amount associated with the raw material extraction, transport, production, distribution and usage of the fuels has been avoided as emissions through the protection of natural ecosystems or removed from the atmosphere through a nature-based process. “CO₂e (CO₂ equivalent) refers to CO₂, CH₄, N₂O. Business Opportunity - Shell RetailershipIf you’re a natural leader with a passion for customer service, Shell can offer you exciting and rewarding opportunities to operate a network of Retail Outlets. Why Shell? Shell Retail is the world’s number one mobility retailer. We’re proud to serve over 25 million customers a day, processing 11 billion transactions a year across more than 43,000 stations in about 75 countries. Our aim is to meet the energy needs of society, in ways that are economically, socially and environmentally viable, now and in the future. Shell has had a long association with India, with Burmah Shell entering the country in 1928. Shell India is one of the most diversified international energy companies in India with over 9000 employees, over 250,000 retail customers, and more than 189 distribution networks. Shell Retail is currently present in India across eight states - Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. Few facts about Shell would include: Shell is one of the most recognized brands in the world. More than 43,000 service stations in more than 75 countries. A Health, Safety, Security & Environment leader. World leader in Premium fuels – cutting-edge fuel technologies developed with FerrarNumber one Global Lubricant supplier, delivering market-leading lubricants to consumers in over 100 countries. Number one Global Lubricant supplier, delivering market-leading lubricants to consumers in over 100 countries. The Retail Business Opportunity Running a Shell service station is a major commitment. Most of our service stations remain open 24X7, 365 days a year and we pledge to provide world-class customer experience with every transaction. Hence, we are looking for partners who display leadership qualities and can maintain world-class service standards, always. You will be at the helm of operations of your Retail Outlet and it is upon you to decide how you will organize and manage your team. Your team will look up to you for inspiration and we expect you to be able to lead from the front and set the benchmarks of professionalism. As a part of the role that you will play in Shell’s retail eco-system, you will need to interact with a whole host of people. Given the nature of business, good people skills will help you succeed and manage your stakeholders and customers effortlessly. The relationship you build with people around you will go a long way in building trust and loyalty with your customers and team alike. The Business Concept As a Shell Retailer, you get an opportunity to demonstrate your acumen in the following areas, to name a few: - customer service, retail operations excellence, P&L management, business approach, enthusiasm and most importantly, commitment. We will partner with you to provide you a basic set-up of the fuel station (land, Infrastructure & fuels owned by Shell) and handhold you through a world class training program. As partners, we will work together to achieve common objectives and will support each other to ensure that the business prospers in an open and collaborative environment. As per of our standard business operative models, the retailer will have to abide by the following entitlements and royalty structure: Entitlements and Royalty Overview The retailer receives a commission on all fuel sales. He/ She is entitled to the income generated from all shop transactions but is expected to pay pre-agreed royalties to Shell for all non-fuel sales. The retailer is expected to grow the business and exceed estimated business plans while controlling and optimising on their costs. This is an excellent way to increase their income as well. Shell will determine the core product range for the convenience store; however, the retailer has an option to include a limited range of products of their choice to cater to local tastes and preferences. The investment towards the inventory of the convenience store will have to be borne by the retailer. The retailer is required to recruit and manage the staff at their station. They will be on the retailer’s business’s payroll. Returns on investment Like any other retail business, the income one can expect from a retail outlet depends on a variety of factors like location, size and format of the shop, etc.; but the potential earning lies anywhere between Rs. 8,50,000* and Rs.1,020,000* per annum per site. There is also a possibility of a single retailer handling multiple sites. In addition, you also get the opportunity to earn over and above your expected income range by exceeding targets and optimizing costs. *Please note, these figures are indicative and subject to change. As a standard practice, we will hold a specified amount from you as security deposit. The amount will vary depending on the nature of the cluster you will be allocated. You will also need to ensure a stipulated working capital amount to fund your day-to-day business operations and to order the initial inventory for the shop. An initial investment of around Rs. 18 Lakhs** should be enough. **Please note, these figures are indicative and subject to change. An ideal candidate should have: Minimum Education - Graduate & Equivalent Preferably 5+ years of working experience in retail / service / hospitality industry Investment capacity of Rs. 18 Lakhs** Experience in managing and handling manpower Ability to manage financial statements, P&L and drive profitability Strong financial credibility Ability to unlearn and learn GM’s Message As they say, leadership is not just about you but about the growth of others. At Shell, we believe in empowering leaders. If you’re a pioneer with a zeal to serve your customers, we have an exciting opportunity for you. Today, people at fuel stations do not just sell fuel but offer a service that drives consumers back to them. Customers these days look for a wide range of products and services that cater to the needs of both the Motor and the Motorist. With more than 43,000 outlets that serve 25 million customers across the world, every day, we offer an opportunity for being associated with the brand. We’re consistently making enhancements in our operations. Delivering world class Customer Experience is at the heart of everything we do. And, all of these are being delivered by passionate people. So, if you are people oriented, customer centric, P&L focused, business minded, ambitious and determined, Shell can give wings to your aspirations of being an entrepreneur. If that sounds like something you can help deliver, then you could look forward to a great future as part of our select group of Self-employed Retailers. MEET OUR RETAILERS Sovit Khemka I started my career soon after graduation and have had experience in QSRs and setting up business operations for start-ups. I always wanted to run my own business someday. I explored multiple options available in the market & that’s when I got to know about Shell Retailership. I was intrigued by the proposition and immediately applied for the program. As part of this program, I underwent a well-planned training which helped boost my confidence. As days went by, my excitement to be a retailer with Shell only grew. I started with a single site in 2017. 3 years later, I am successfully running a cluster of 3 sites. I, together with 125+ empowered staff members, am proudly delighting millions of customers with a great experience. I’m very thankful to Shell for having given me such a wonderful platform. Rupali Gawate I come from a farmer family in a small town, but my family always encouraged me to approach life confidently and achieve my goals independently. I strongly believe that the future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams. And my dream came true when I got an opportunity to be a part of Shell - a company which is globally known for its innovative technology, committed goals, cleaner energy, collaborative culture, and respect & safety for its employees. After successfully completing the recruitment process I underwent rigorous on-site training, post which I was ready to join a community of passionate, committed and responsible Retailers. As soon as I started my journey with Shell, I felt I was ready to become a leader with great passion and a commitment to safety – not only of my own, but that of others around me. I am now proud to say that I lead a team that constantly aims for the best and stays focused on delivering a great customer experience. Terms & Conditions / Disclaimer: This is an offer to make an offer and Shell reserves the sole right, to be exercised at its discretion, regarding the appointment of a Retailer and any other matters connected therewith. The appointment of a Retailer shall be subject to Shell standard terms and conditions and signing of a definitive agreement. (Legal Disclaimer as per RBA) Shell shall be entitled to revise investment limit from time to time and holds complete discretion to do so. *Earnings and numbers of sites may vary and are not guaranteed. Business Opportunity - Shell DealershipCreating Value through Partnership If you’re a natural leader with a passion for customer service, Shell offers you exciting and rewarding opportunities to operate in a network of Dealer owned & operated Shell Stations. Why Shell? SHELL IS A LEADING ENERGY COMPANY FOR MORE THAN 100 YEARS Shell Mobility is the world’s number one mobility retailer. We’re proud to serve over 25 million customers a day, processing 11 billion transactions a year across more than 43,000 stations in about 75 countries. Our aim is to meet the energy needs of society, in ways that are economically, socially, and environmentally viable, now and in the future. Few facts about Shell would include: Shell is one of the most recognized brands in the world. More than 43,000 service stations in more than 75 countries. A Health, Safety, Security & Environment leader. World leader in Premium fuels – cutting-edge fuel technologies developed with Ferrari Number one Global Lubricant supplier, delivering market-leading lubricants to consumers in over 100 countries. Shell India is one of the most diversified international energy companies in India with over 9000 employees, over 250,000 retail customers, and more than 190 strong distribution networks. Shell Retail is currently present in India across Nine states - Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Kerala Presently we are looking for dealer partners across the states of Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu & Kerala in the below mentioned cities: Karnataka – Major cities and towns like Tumkur, Shimoga, Udupi, Chitradurga, Chikmangallur, Hassan, Gadag, Mandya, Bagalkot, Kolar, Hospet, Bellary, Chikballapur, Hubli, Belgaum and the major National and State Highways Gujarat - Major Towns like Anand, Nadiad, Mehsana, Palanpur, Deesa, Dahod, Navsari, Valsad, Vapi, Surendranagar, Botad, Mahuva, Amreli, Veraval, Porbander, Junagadh, Jetpur, Gondal, Morbi and few National & State Highways etc. Maharashtra – Mostly in western part covering major highways, towns like Ahmednagar, Satara, Karad, Baramati, Daund, Bhigwan, Indapur, Shirdi, Yeola, Manmad, Malegaon, Chalisgaon, Nasik Rural, Igatpuri, Ratnagairi, Alibaug, Karjat, Pune-rural and few others. Andhra Pradesh - Adoni, Anantapur, Kadapa, Nandyal, Produttur, Madanapalle, Bhimavaram, Chilakaluripet, Chittoor, Dharmavaram, Eluru, Gudivada, Guntakal, Hindupur, Machilipatnam Narasaraopet, Ongole, Srikakulam, Tadipatri, Tenali, Tirupati, Vizianagaram ,Tadepalligudem NH-42/NH-40/NH-65/NH-16/NH-216/NH-544D/NH-176AG/NH-516E/NH-71/NH-140 Tamil Nadu - Erode,Tiruvannamalai, Dindigul, Cuddalore, Thanjavur, Pudukottai, Karaikudi, Hosur, Krishnagiri ,Dharmapuri and selected State Highways & National Highways. Kerala – Major cities and towns like Kochi, Alleppey, Kollam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Calicut, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur, Kasargode and the major National and State Highway stretches like NH 544, NH 66, NH 766 and MC Road. The Retail Business Opportunity Running a Shell station is a major commitment. Most of our stations remain open 24X7, 365 days a year and we pledge to provide world-class customer experience with every time. Hence, we are looking for partners who display leadership qualities and can maintain world-class service standards, always. You will be at the helm of operations of your Retail station and it is upon you to decide how you will organize and manage your team. Your team will look up to you for inspiration and we expect you to be able to lead from the front and set the benchmarks of professionalism. As a part of the role that you will play in Shell’s retail eco-system, you will need to interact with a whole host of people. Given the nature of business, good people skills will help you succeed and manage your stakeholders and customers effortlessly. The relationship you build with people around you will go a long way in building trust and loyalty with your customers and team alike. The Business Concept As a Shell DEALER, you get an opportunity to demonstrate your acumen in the following areas, to name a few: - customer service, retail operations excellence, P&L management, business approach, enthusiasm and most importantly, commitment. We will partner and help you build the fuel station (land, Infrastructure & fuels owned by DEALER) and handhold you through a world class training program. As partners, we will work together to achieve common objectives and will support each other to ensure that the business prospers in an open and collaborative environment. As per of our standard business operative models, the dealer will have to abide by the following entitlements and royalty structure: Entitlements and Royalty Overview The Dealer receives a commission on all fuel sales and attractive margin via Lubricant sale.Also, he/ she is entitled to the income generated from all shop transactions but is expected to pay pre-agreed royalties to Shell for all non-fuel sales The Dealer is expected to grow the business and exceed estimated business plans while controlling and optimizing on their costs. Shell will determine the core product range for the convenience store; however, the Dealer has an option to include a limited range of products of their choice to cater to local tastes and preferences. The investment towards the inventory of the Fuel, Lubricant & convenience store will have to be borne by the Dealer. The Dealer is required to recruit and manage the staff at their station. They will be on the Dealer’s business payroll. Returns on investment Like any other retail business, the income one can expect from a retail outlet depends on a variety of factors like location, size of the outlet and format of the shop. There is also a possibility of a single Dealer handling multiple sites The Dealer investment is different for different location based on the model of the retail outlet. This can range from 75 lakhs to 300 Lakhs INR** which is utilized for CAPEX of the project. The dealer needs invest additionally for the working capital towards his inventory of fuel & non-fuel. SHELL does not charge any security deposit for allotment of dealership (However there will be Minimal non refundable application fees will be there) The ROI of an outlet is generally 12-15%** in average for a dealer. **Please note, these figures are indicative and subject to change based on the site parameters. An ideal candidate should have: Preferably Business/working experience in retail / service / hospitality industry Investment capacity depending on outlet type Experience in managing and handling manpower Ability to manage financial statements, P&L and drive profitability Strong financial credibility Ability to unlearn and learn High sense of integrity and commitment towards company guidelines Suitable land parcel (owned/leased) Think you might be a good fit? Take the plunge and fill in your details in the form given below! GM’s Message “Shape the future we will be proud of and make a difference to life’s journeys” As they say, leadership is not just about you but about the growth of others. At Shell, we believe in empowering leaders. If you’re a pioneer with a zeal to serve your customers, we have an exciting opportunity for you. Today, people at fuel stations do not just sell fuel but offer a service that drives consumers back to them. Customers these days look for a wide range of products and services that cater to the needs of both the Motor and the Motorist. With more than 43,000 outlets that serve 25 million customers across the world, every day, we offer an opportunity for being associated with the brand. We’re consistently making enhancements in our operations. Delivering world class Customer Experience is at the heart of everything we do. And, all of these are being delivered by passionate people. So, if you are people oriented, customer centric, P&L focused, business minded, ambitious and determined, Shell can give wings to your aspirations of being an entrepreneur. If that sounds like something you can help deliver, then you could look forward to a great future as part of our select group of Shell Dealers. MEET OUR DEALERS 1. Morbi, Gujarat Harish Gohel “I simply feel WOW! When I first went to a Shell Retail station in Rajkot, I was amazed by the services offered to customers and the way they were greeting each & every customer. The same day, I decided to become a dealer for Shell in Gujarat. My primary businesses include Solar Energy, Construction, Land development businesses which were not related with Mobility business. I went to Bengaluru for the dealer evaluation process as I had a wonderful land in the middle of Morbi city. It was a very smooth interaction with the Shell representatives and they guided me very well to associate with the No. 1* Fuel brand in the world. When I got my first LOI in Gujarat for commercial dealer operated site with Shell after proper due diligence, I was really thrilled and on the top of the world. It was like a dream come true for me & my family. At each & every stage, Shell representatives have guided me very well for setting up the retail station in Morbi. Now I am the proud owner of M/s Jayraj Petroleum, Morbi. I was inducted and well trained by Shell team due to which I can now replicate a similar operation like any company owned site in my city as well. When people appreciate our various services like Premium Fuels, Lube bay, Convince store, I feel I have taken the right decision to become a dealer with Shell. On regular basis, Shell representatives guide me and help me to maximize my ROI from my site. After this stupendous experience, I am set to get another Retail station of Shell where I want to cater to a larger set of customers and maximize my ROI.” 2. Chottanahalli, Karnataka Deepthi SR "I have worked as a teacher in Bangalore for the last six years. I was very satisfied with my job ; amidst children. But my dream of becoming an entrepreneur was always alive within me. No matter where you’re from, your dreams are valid. Being a customer of Shell for many years, I have always admired the quality and service offered by Shell. When I learnt that Shell is offering dealership, I realized that this could be the path to realizing my dream. I got selected as a dealer and there was no end to my delight. It was a dream come true to be a part of the prestigious Shell family. Today, I am a confident individual with a team of employees serving our customers with the best quality, safety and services offered by Shell. I thank my family for the immense support and the team at Shell who led me to where I am today. I cherish this association with Shell and would continue to keep the company’s world class service alive at my station." Energy and innovationEnergy is vital to our daily lives. Over the coming decades, more people will gain access to energy and enjoy higher standards of living. At the same time, climate change remains a serious concern. We use human ingenuity, innovation, technology and power of partnerships to unlock more, cleaner energy for the years ahead. Sketch – India: Transforming to a net-zero emissions energy system Explore a highly challenging, but possible pathway for India to achieve a net-zero emissions energy system by 2050. Shaping Future Together We work together to transform challenge into opportunity and stay true to our purpose of powering progress together. Welcome to NXplorers India NXplorers is an innovative educational programme that introduces young people to the complex and creative thinking needed to bring about positive change. The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Digitalisation Digitalisation is transforming the energy industry, improving efficiency and safety and facilitating the use of renewable energy. Natural gas We are helping to power lives around the world with natural gas, the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon. Deep water Vast resources of oil and gas lie deep beneath the ocean’s surface. They have the potential to support economic growth and help meet the world’s growing energy needs. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. Innovating together Do you have a great idea or innovative technology? We look for creative people, companies and organisations to partner with. India: Transforming to a net-zero emissions energy systemHow could India decarbonize its energy system by 2050 while continuing to make strong progress on economic development? The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) and Shell have created this scenario sketch to explore the ongoing energy transition in India. It illustrates a technically possible, but highly challenging pathway to steer the domestic energy system towards net-zero emissions by 2050. Achieving India’s economic development ambitions – significant growth, universal electricity access and clean modern cooking fuels for all – requires significant industrial capacity to achieve and, unless carefully managed, has the potential to increase greenhouse gas emissions. But rather than follow the fossil-fuel development path previously pursued by advanced economies, India can take a different development path. By relying on lower-carbon sources of energy, the country has an opportunity to deliver economic growth, energy self-reliance and improved standards of living. With the right policies, the energy transition can provide opportunities for balanced and sustainable economic development that delivers a better quality of life for all. Make no mistake, achieving it will not be easy. It calls for fundamental changes to the India energy system as it continues to develop. Find out more by following the links below. India Scenario sketch Read the full report. Summary sketch Download a summary of the India scenario sketch. Infographic See how sectors transform in the India scenario sketch infographic. What are Shell Scenarios? Shell has been a pioneer in developing scenarios to explore the future and deepen its strategic thinking for almost 50 years. The Energy Transformation Scenarios Explore three new scenarios that consider the consequences of near-term choices, including implications for the pace of energy transitions and the impact on climate. Shaping Future Together We work together to transform challenge into opportunity and stay true to our purpose of powering progress together. Our climate target In tackling climate change, the focus is increasingly on limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5° Celsius. Shell supports this ambition. Welcome to NXplorers IndiaNXplorers is an innovative educational programme that introduces young people to the complex and creative thinking needed to bring about positive change. NXplorers student wins a prestigious award A school student from Karnataka, India is improving the health and safety of local farmers and helping them save energy with an innovative Agri Sprayer. NXplorers in Delhi From young minds to leaders of tomorrow - Shell’s NXplorers comes to New Delhi NXplorers Future Leaders LabLearn a new way of thinking to solve real-world challenges under Food-Water- Energy Nexus and become the change agents to shape the future. Complete the Self Learning Module of NXplorers and participate in the “Idea Competition” to win the opportunity to get mentorships from industry experts. Top 6 entries also get seed funding to execute the ideas in real world. Are you excited? NXplorers is Shell’s global STEM Education program, especially designed for the youth around the world. The program has already benefitted more than 65,000 students from 18 countries in 4 continents around the world. NXplorers Future Leaders Lab is a self- learning module to help students from universities, colleges and other Higher Education Institutes to develop critical thinking, creativity and problem-solving skills by learning proven NXplorers methodology. The program offers the participant to explore real world problems under Food-Water-Energy Nexus and develop potential solutions through systems thinking, scenario planning and theory of change methodologies. The program has two parts, first part is the self – learning module and second part is the Idea Competition which is optional.After completing the self-learning part of the program, participants would be eligible to participate in the “Idea Competition”. However, this is not mandatory to participate in the Idea Competition after completing the self-learning module but we highly recommend to submit your idea generated from the self-learning for enhanced learning and exposure .Participants can submit their entries as individual or team entry. Top 10 entries would be mentored by experts from industry and academia to develop their ideas further. They would get an opportunity to pitch their ideas to senior leaders from energy industry and other experts. Top 6 entries shall be awarded with a seed funding, of Rs 3,00,000/- for a team project and Rs.1,00,000/- for an individual project, to execute their projects in a real-world situation. Please refer to the Terms and Conditions for further detail on participation of Idea Competition. NXplorers enables participants to: Develop ‘higher-order’ cognitive capacities, such as critical thinking, creativity and problem-solving skill. Learn and practice tools, methodologies and skills needed to tackle real world problems using collaborative, innovative and inter-disciplinary approaches and to become positive agents of change. Explore and address the complex challenges faced by our society related to Food – Water – Energy nexus. Important Dates 31st August 2021 (23:59 HRS IST) Deadline to submit entries for Idea Competition 5th November 2021 Announcement of Top 6 Change projects for seed funding Post announcement of the results Implementation of the ideas in the community Above dates are tentative and subject to change. Registrations are open for self learning module Self Learning Module Idea Competition Form Terms & Conditions Contact Us nxplorersindia@nxplorers.com NXplorers student wins a prestigious award A school student from Karnataka, India is improving the health and safety of local farmers and helping them save energy with an innovative Agri Sprayer. NXplorers in Delhi From young minds to leaders of tomorrow - Shell’s NXplorers comes to New Delhi Welcome to NXplorers India NXplorers is an innovative educational programme that introduces young people to the complex and creative thinking needed to bring about positive change. Course MapThe Course Map for NXplorers Future Leaders Lab has two stages There are three stages to the NXplorers self-learning module – Explore, Create and Change – with tools and resources to support each stage. The tools and resources use seven questions to guide NXplorers through these stages, enabling them to investigate the challenges that society faces and find real, lasting solutions. EXPLORE What are the issues? What’s causing the issues? How can we dig deeper into the issues? CREATE What would happen if nothing changed? What actions could bring about change? What is our preferred future? CHANGE What action can lead to our preferred future? Participation in Idea Competition is optional for the participant to enhance their learning and skills. Participants have to successfully complete Self Learning Module to be eligible to take part in the “Idea Competition”. For more details on participation criteria, please refer Terms & Conditions. FAQsExplore our Frequently Asked Questions to discover the answers that you’re searching forNXplorers in DelhiFrom young minds to leaders of tomorrow - Shell’s NXplorers comes to New Delhi A device for farmers to assess moisture in the soil. Producing biogas from food and agricultural waste. Or a smart drainage system that biologically treat sewage water. What sets the innovations apart is that behind each one of them are children between the age of 14 to 19. You may have seen a glimpse of this at Shell’s Make the Future event in Chennai in December 2018 and now NXplorers has come to Delhi. Students, teachers, media and chief guest, Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Shri. Manish Sisodia gathered to launch NXplorers – Shell’s global Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education programme. The event held at the Rajendra Prasad Sarvodaya Vidyalaya at the President Estate in New Delhi aimed to equip the youth with tools and methodology that they may need to address complex challenges of the world. Speaking on the occasion, Chief Guest, Shri Manish Sisodia congratulated Shell and the Learning Links Foundation for launching the NXplorers initiative and giving an opportunity to students to identify complex problems in their areas and develop sustainable solutions. He said “The programme is in line with our focus on providing quality educational and developmental opportunities to students of government run schools. We need to encourage students to think out of the box, think local and instill a thinking to challenge the existing and go beyond the textbook to find solutions beyond the obvious” While the programme launched in Delhi, some of the projects already being carried out by students across the country include: biogas production from the local food/agricultural waste, smart drainage system using algae and bacteria, ‘seedographer’ that improves resource use efficiency in agricultural farms, smart irrigation system that can help farmers to optimize water usage. NXplorers aims to target 30 schools in the capital and is an endeavor to give students a platform in designing sustainable solutions to the food-water-energy supply using a unique combination of Systems Thinking, Scenario Planning and Theory of Change. NXplorers is being rolled out across four states and aims to reach 3000 schools and 2,60,000 students between 14-19 years of in the next three years in India. The NXplorers programme has already registered itself in 14 other countries, namely Russia, Brazil, Egypt, Nigeria, Kazakhstan, Australia, Oman, Qatar, UAE, China, Brunei, Singapore, Philippines and Trinidad. Shri. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India added that “Shell NXplorers aims to instill complex and creative thinking skills in young Indian minds to bring about a positive change to our country’s food-water-energy nexus. Students explore issues and causes, create actions and design solutions to power sustainable growth for India and the world” Shell hopes to reach 2,60,000 students across 3000 schools in India to explore issues and design solutions to solve real-life problems around food-water-energy. At the core of Shell’s value system is also to become a successful community champion and NXplorers strives to do just that. The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. NXplorers student wins a prestigious awardA school student from Karnataka, India is improving the health and safety of local farmers and helping them save energy with an innovative Agri Sprayer. NXplorers, an innovative educational programme that aims at building awareness, developing knowledge and providing thinking tools and complex problem-solving skills for the leaders of the future, supports a local student from Karnataka to come up with an award-winning solution to improve crop pesticide treatment. The local farmers at Dakshina Kannada district in Karnataka were constantly facing skin, eye and other health related issues while spraying Bordeaux mixture, commonly known as ‘Bordo Mix’ on their plantations. This mixture was being used by the farmers for removal of fungus and to prevent the crops from rotting during the rainy season. 15-year old Neha Bhat, the ninth-grade student from the same community, took up the challenge to provide a solution to the problem faced by the farmers. She applied her learnings from NXplorers, Shell’s flagship STEM education program, that she recently attended. This innovative program introduced Neha to the complex and creative thinking needed to bring about any positive change. The confidence and empathy that Neha gained through the NXplorers journey sensitised her about the situation. Supported and guided to focus on the Food-Water-Energy nexus and ‘Systems Thinking,’ she started by gathering information about the traditional methods used for spraying. These commonly included using Gator pumps. She further analysed and evaluated her findings to conclude that the Gator pumps could not control pressure and output properly. Moreover, these methods consumed a significant number of manhours, labour and fuel, making it difficult and time consuming for the farmers. The challenge was complex, and she needed to provide a solution swiftly. With the help of her school teachers and NXplorers mentors, she applied the NXplorers Scenario Planning tools, and after several experiments, developed an advanced, multipurpose, triple efficient, automatic Agri Sprayer which can spray the pesticide with maximum effectiveness and minimum manual effort from the farmer. Furthermore, it helps reduce human intervention, it’s easy to use, maintenance free, consumes less fuel, produces less noise, saves time and works with enhanced efficiency. Neha has tested this prototype in her family owned farms, and it has proved to be a lot more effective when compared to the existing sprayers. The prototype addresses the challenges of farming to maximise crop yield and reduce man hours while helping the farmers maintain their health. Neha is currently working on the Theory of Change and looking at actions that could further help in reducing the size and improving the efficiency of the Agri Sprayer. Neha’s problem-solving creative innovation “Agri Sprayer” was recently recognized by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and won a cash prize of Rs 30,000 along with a certificate. Her project was one among other six projects submitted by NXplorers students in the competition. The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. The energy futureThe world will need much more energy to power homes and fuel transport for a growing population with rising living standards. But to counter climate change, energy must increasingly come from lower-carbon sources. Our know-how, technology and innovations are helping to deliver more, cleaner energy. Lives and livelihoods, economies and communities depend on convenient, reliable and affordable energy to prosper and grow. People today have never been more connected. More and more of us are enjoying better opportunities, better health and a higher standard of living. Most of the energy we use today comes from oil and coal, and increasingly from natural gas. These hydrocarbons power, heat and cool homes and workplaces, and fuel transport systems that take us to work or school, or bring us to a holiday destination. They enable industries that sustain our lives, and provide the chemical ingredients to make most of the products we buy – like the device you are using to read this page. Global demand for energy is rising, driven by growing population with rising living standards. By 2050 the number of people on the planet is forecast to grow to 9 billion - that’s nearly 2 billion more of us than today. Many people in emerging economies will join the global middle class. They will buy refrigerators, computers and other appliances that consume energy. And many will buy cars, more than doubling the number on the road. Our cities increasingly provide the heartbeat of our economy. Around three-quarters of the world’s population will live in cities by mid-century, putting more pressure on the food, water and energy resources essential for our shared wellbeing and prosperity. Read about Shell’s work on future cities Experts agree that global energy demand is likely to double by 2050 compared to its year 2000 level. At the same time, tackling climate change caused by carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and other environmental stresses has never been more important. Meeting these challenges will require a radical change in the global energy system and a range of new energy sources. Because the energy system is so large, and demand for energy is rising so quickly, to achieve these changes will take a huge collective effort. A cleaner energy future Shell has been preparing for the challenges of a lower-carbon future for some time through our scenarios planning. Our New Lens Scenarios describe plausible futures, where renewable energy sources like solar and wind could provide up to 40% of energy globally by 2060, and the sun becomes the world’s largest primary energy source a decade later. Read about Shell Scenarios and download copies As the energy system evolves, hydrocarbons will continue to play a vital role in the coming decades, providing much-needed energy to fuel transport, in particular aviation, and make everyday products from plastics to steel. We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more, cleaner energy to help meet the world’s growing needs, and find ways to use energy more efficiently. We also work with partners, communities, governments and others to do this in environmentally and socially responsible ways. Today, natural gas – the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon – makes up more than half of our production. We believe it will be vital to building a sustainable energy future, especially in power generation, where it produces around half the CO2 and just one-tenth the air pollutants that coal does. We are involved in several projects to safely capture and store CO2 to mitigate the use of hydrocarbons. These depend on government support to be financially viable and to become more widespread. Replacing a coal-fired power plant with a gas-fired plant that has CCS can cut CO2 emissions by up to 90%. We also have a decade of experience in wind power, with involvement in nine projects in North America and Europe. Transport is essential to modern living. We are innovating to help people and goods move around more cleanly and efficiently, by developing more efficient lubricants and fuels including low-carbon biofuels and hydrogen, and providing education programmes helping drivers boost their own fuel economy. Read about Shell and the future of transport Natural gas We are helping to power lives around the world with natural gas, the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. Environment Shell provides energy in a responsible way, helping the world move towards a future in which the energy used causes minimal impact on the planet. What sustainability means at Shell For Shell, sustainability means providing essential energy for a growing population, while respecting people, their safety and the environment. Natural gasWe are helping to meet growing global energy demand and limit CO2 emissions with cleaner-burning natural gas. It powers, heats and cools industries, homes and businesses, and it can be a good partner to renewable energy sources like wind and solar. Natural gas can also be used as a lower-carbon fuel for ships, trucks, buses and trains. Global demand for natural gas, could rise by more than half by 2040, according to the International Energy Agency. Natural gas is the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon. We explore for it, and produce it, on and offshore. It makes up more than half of our production today. Advantages of natural gas Natural gas is the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon, producing around half the carbon dioxide (CO2) and just one tenth of the air pollutants of coal when burnt to generate electricity. It is abundant. If consumption remained at today’s levels, there would be enough recoverable gas resources to last around 230 years. It is versatile. A gas-fired power station takes much less time to start and stop than a coal-fired plant. This flexibility makes natural gas a good partner to renewable energy sources like solar and wind power, which are only available when the sun shines and the wind blows. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) We cool natural gas to -162° Celsius (-260° Fahrenheit), turning it into a liquid and reducing its volume by 600 times, which makes it easy and economical to ship to energy-hungry places around the world. We also turn LNG back into gas for distribution to homes and businesses. As a pioneer of LNG, Shell provided the technology for the world’s first commercial LNG plant in 1964, and shipped the very first commercial cargo, starting a global trade. We have been designing and building LNG plants. Learn more about LNG on our global website Floating LNG (FLNG) Traditionally, LNG plants are built on land. But Shell is building a giant floating facility to produce liquefied natural gas at sea, Prelude FLNG. It will also be the largest offshore floating facility ever built – 488 metres (1,600 feet) long and 74m (243ft) wide. Shell has developed revolutionary technology that allows gas to be produced, liquefied, stored and offloaded into LNG carriers at sea. It allows clusters of smaller, remote fields to be unlocked by one FLNG facility, or larger fields to be served by several FLNG facilities. Discover more about Prelude FLNG on our global website LNG for transport Natural gas could form a bigger part of the transport energy mix as a lower-carbon fuel, alongside developments in vehicle efficiency, biofuels, hydrogen and electric mobility. We are exploring the use of LNG as a transport fuel for trucks and ships with potential economic and environmental benefits compared to diesel and fuel oil. Other uses include in trains, the mining sector and industrial applications. We are also looking at ways to use LNG more in our own operations. Read more about LNG as a transport fuel on our global website Gas-to-liquids (GTL) Shell’s gas-to-liquids (GTL) technology converts natural gas into high-quality liquid products that would otherwise be made from crude oil. These include transportation fuels, motor oils and the ingredients for everyday necessities like plastics, detergents and cosmetics. GTL products are colourless and odourless. They contain almost none of the impurities – sulphur, aromatics and nitrogen –found in crude oil. Learn more about gas-to-liquids (GTL) on our global website Tight and shale gas Read more about tight and shale gas on our global website The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. Deep waterShell has a long history of successfully developing deep-water energy projects worldwide. We use our knowledge, experience and proven deep-water technologies to unlock new resources safely and efficiently. We work to limit the impact of our operations on the environment and share the benefits with neighbouring communities. Beneath the world’s oceans – in waters ranging from a few hundred to several thousand metres deep – lie vast supplies of oil and natural gas which have the potential to boost economic growth and play a vital role in the future energy mix. Freezing temperatures, immense water pressure and pitch darkness all make producing oil and gas from deep water a major technical challenge. We have pushed the boundaries of what is possible and safely achievable to unlock these resources the world needs. Shell has decades of experience in developing and operating deep-water projects, with more than 20 major projects active today, and significant new projects under development. Our deep-water activities extend from the Gulf of Mexico to the China Sea, from the Norwegian continental shelf to the waters off Nigeria’s coast. Read how we master deep-water challenges Local benefits We work with people living closest to our operations and benefit communities onshore. Our projects award contracts to local suppliers and stimulate the growth of support industries, such as boats and materials. In Brazil and Nigeria, for example, we helped create the first generation of national oil and gas engineers. In Malaysia we support a training scheme, together with local authorities, to qualify much-needed welders for the oil and gas industry. Read more about local communities near to our deep-water operations Safety first At all of our operations, including those far below the ocean’s surface, safety is always our top priority. All of Shell’s deep-water wells must meet rigorous design and construction standards. They are drilled and completed by engineers who receive several years’ training. We use advanced sensors to monitor deep-water wells in real time during operations. This allows engineers based in onshore operations centres to identify any potential risks and respond immediately. Read more about safety in deep water Our deep-water projects Shell’s major deep-water projects include Stones, the world’s deepest oil and gas project in the US Gulf of Mexico, that operates in around 2,900 metres (9,500 feet) of water. Stones is Shell’s second producing field in the Lower Tertiary geologic frontier in the Gulf of Mexico. Perdido, which started operation in 2010, set a previous water depth record for an offshore oil drilling and production platform at 2,450 metres (8,000 feet). Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. Natural gas We are helping to power lives around the world with natural gas, the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon. Overcoming technology challengesInnovation and technology are vital to providing a wider, more sustainable mix of energy resources for the world’s growing population. Thousands of Shell scientists, researchers and engineers around the globe are working to develop tomorrow’s ground-breaking solutions, collaborating with experts and specialists beyond our industry. Shell has been a technology pioneer for more than a century. Today we are one of the largest investors in research and development (R&D) among international oil and gas companies, spending more than $1 billion each year to turn ideas into commercially viable technologies. Scientists and researchers at our R&D facilities around the world work across time zones to develop ground-breaking innovations. These range from fuels and lubricants that help customers use less energy to the world’s largest floating production facility to unlock and liquefy natural gas at sea, Prelude FLNG. We work with governments, world-class academics and industry specialists, and we share ideas and expertise with partners inside and beyond the energy sector to drive innovation forward. Open innovation can help speed up and deliver more cost-effectively developments in areas such as natural gas, biofuels, solar power, water treatment, CO2 management and energy efficiency. We also develop innovative ways to make our operations more efficient and help manage water consumption and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Meet our Chief Technology Officer and Chief Scientists Read more about how we innovate around the world Finding more energy The era of easy-to-find oil and gas is coming to an end. We are developing new technologies to detect reservoirs that were once invisible, for example at depths of more than 3,000 metres, or hidden under thick layers of salt deep below the seabed. Read more about how we discover hidden resources beneath the surface Unlocking more energy Once we decide to invest in an oil field our task is to drill the wells and produce the energy as safely and efficiently as possible, with minimum impact on the environment. To achieve these goals we continually develop new technologies and refine our safety processes, applying the same global standards to all our well designs and operating procedures. Our innovations include technology to allow more oil and gas to flow from deeper wells, letting us tap otherwise uneconomical resources; smaller, leaner drillships that drill faster and use less fuel than comparable vessels; smart oil and gas fields equipped with sensors to monitor production in real-time; and mobile drilling rigs that drill faster and more efficiently on land than conventional rigs. To find these resources we collect and process vast amounts of data from sensors to produce an accurate geological map of the site we are investigating. We then turn the data into images that can be analysed and interpreted quickly and efficiently. This ability to visualise and interpret lies behind our biggest successes in oil and gas exploration. Discover how we unlock new resources using advanced technologies Making the most of resources When an oil field comes on stream, it has enough pressure inside to push the oil up through the wells naturally. But over time the pressure in the field drops and the flow of oil slows. We have developed enhanced oil recovery (EOR) techniques to help us extract an additional 5-30% of the oil in place, increasing the overall recovery level from the field to 50-70% or even higher. Read more about techniques to get more energy out The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Innovating together Do you have a great idea or innovative technology? We look for creative people, companies and organisations to partner with. Innovating togetherDo you have an idea or technology that could transform the energy industry? We may be able to offer you funding, laboratory and research space, professional coaching, or access to markets and manufacturers – essentially everything your idea or technology needs in order to grow and move forward faster. Innovation is in our DNA – it means making things better than before. It means driving the right solutions to deliver the energy that our customers need to power and sustain their lives. But we know we cannot solve the world's energy challenges on our own. To meet the rising energy demand in the most socially, environmentally, and economically responsible way, we need to unlock the full power of innovation: the capacity to do things differently and better than before. Discover our innovation programmes below, and which of them could best meet your needs. Shell GameChanger Shell founded its GameChanger programme in 1996 to provide innovators with the financial and technical support and space they need to demonstrate the technical and commercial viability of their ideas. GameChanger helps them to prove their concept works, quickly and cost-efficiently. GameChanger has worked with more than 1,700 innovators around the world, helping them turn more than 100 ideas into reality. These include the revolutionary idea of producing and cooling natural gas to liquid at sea. Boosted by early funding from the GameChanger programme, the idea is coming to life with the Prelude FLNG project Discover more about Shell GameChanger Shell TechWorks Shell TechWorks is an open innovation programme that brings together entrepreneurs and technology start-ups from within and outside the energy industry to solve one of the world’s greatest challenges: how to meet growing demand for affordable energy with less environmental impact. We founded Shell TechWorks in the USA in 2013. Its office is located in the world’s most innovative square mile, in Cambridge, Massachusetts – a hub for leading technology organisations and close to more than 80 universities. Read more about Shell TechWorks Shell Technology Ventures Shell Technology Ventures (STV) is our corporate-venturing arm, which invests in companies to speed up the development and deployment of new technologies that complement our business. Founded in 1998, STV acts as an investor and partner in the commercialisation of innovation. The entrepreneurs and companies we invest in benefit from our technical and scientific expertise and from the possibility of testing or piloting their innovations. Learn about companies STV invests in Innovation for small businesses Small businesses offer fresh ideas and focused expertise that can help us to accelerate innovation in energy technologies at Shell. We connect with small business research programmes to identify the brightest and best start-ups and technologies across the globe, and invite them to take part in the Shell Small Business Innovation Initiative. We work with innovators who are already proving the scientific, technical and commercial feasibility of their projects. In return we offer technical resources, testing opportunities, commercial guidance and the possibility of Shell becoming a customer. Read more about our innovation initiative Innovative collaborations We work with governments, world-class academics and industry specialists in our quest to help meet the world’s growing energy needs. Our collaborations range from developing advanced fuels to improving data processing with the IT industry. See how we work with universities, companies and institutes to drive innovation forward The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017We believe the answers to tomorrow’s energy challenges lie in the power of people’s ingenuity, and that together we can #makethefuture today. Globally, we are using more energy than ever before. At the same time, the significance of climate change means the world has to reduce CO2 emissions. We need innovative thinking to make today's energy go further and to find cleaner energy to take us towards a low-carbon world. Great ideas come from conversation, collaboration, partnerships; great minds coming together. Why not join us to tackle tomorrow’s energy challenges so that together we can #makethefuture today. The #makethefuture Accelerator India Programme aims to support anyone with a bright energy idea in action. The programme will help the businesses to build a strong value proposition and enable them to access funding to scale. Applications to 2017 programme are now closed Meet the top 3 finalists who were shortlisted from over 60 entries! Smart Joules: Energy efficiency is the cleanest, quickest and cheapest way to bring more than 300 million Indians out of energy poverty. By eliminating waste in their own operations, building owners can save money, simplify operations, improve comfort and free up resources for the less fortunate. Smart Joules makes this process seamless and profitable from day one. Through a number of solutions they help organisations completely retro-fit their buildings and meet energy conservation targets. Through their JoulePAYS tools they offer assessment, development, execution, financing and optimization of a comprehensive retrofit of your building’s energy system under a single pay-as-you-save agreement, so you can save money from day one without taking any financial or technical risk. JouleTrack collects, analyses, and displays different data streams in order to give you the actionable information you need to meet your energy management goals. Its cloud-based tools help you manage a significant operating expense, identify opportunities for cost savings, maintain comfortable indoor conditions for occupants and improve your team’s productivity. How it Works: Existing or new smart energy meters, building management systems, and other sensors that monitor environmental conditions such as temperature, humidity, flow, etc. are connected to Smart Joules’ self-designed hardware on site. The hardware logs collected data and transmits the same over a Wi-Fi connection to our continuous energy management software, which is set up as per your particular requirements. Reports, alerts and alarms can easily be configured by your team for changes over time or managed by Smart Joules’ team for continuous detection of improvement opportunities. Carbon Masters Carbon Masters India Pvt. Ltd was established in 2012 in Bangalore, and is a pioneer in providing solutions that reduce the risks of climate change. In Doddaballapur, Karnataka, Carbon Masters currently operates a 10-ton biogas plant, which is a waste disposal destination for 10,000 apartments in Bangalore. The company is also setting up a 40-ton plant in Malur, Karnataka, in collaboration with Mahindra & Mahindra. These plants produce Carbonlites Cylinders – India’s first branded bottled Bio-CNG. Carbonlites can displace LPG for commercial cooking, but can also be used as fuel for vehicles or to run power generators. Carbonlites is a renewable natural gas that burns longer and stronger than LPG providing a cooking performance that is preferred by chefs. Carbon Masters have developed bespoke infrastructure e.g piping, unique cascades with 2-4 cylinders, pressure reducing systems, and burners that can make the changeover from LPG to Carbonlites both safe and simple to do. Our users report total in-use cost savings of 10% after switching over to Carbonlites. What’s more, unlike LPG, it’s carbon-neutral in use. Carbonlites in a box is another innovation. It’s a fully functioning biogas plant housed inside refurbished shipping containers. It’s completely customizable and can process organic waste streams from 500kgs to 5 tons and produce up to 250kgs of Carbonlites (equivalent to its weight in LPG) per day. It could also produce 10,000 litres of liquid fertilizer. It does all this in just a one-third of the space occupied by a conventional biogas plant. Carbonlites represents carbon mitigation in a bottle and a box - by not sending organic waste to landfills, it avoids methane emissions; by processing waste on-site, it avoids diesel emissions from pick-up trucks; and by producing Carbonlites bioCNG, it displaces LPG, further reducing emissions while also saves rising pick-up charges and LPG costs. Its clean energy for a clean India. Graviky Labs: Air pollution soot includes the fine black particles, chiefly composed of carbon, produced by incomplete combustion of fossil fuels. The common trait of soot particles is that they are extremely tiny – 2.5 micrometers or smaller in diameter. This is smaller than dust and mould, and is about 1/30 the diameter of a human hair. They can travel deep into the lungs, where the compounds it consists of can do some serious damage. Graviky labs research has been around capturing this soot/pollution and repurposing it to consumer safe inks. One of the main quotes inspiring Graviky Labs is; “pollution is merely a resource that isn’t being used properly.” – R Buckminster Fuller Background: In 2013 started out as Kaalink. They seeded at the Fluid Interfaces Group, MIT Media Lab, Boston. In 2014, the started working on air pollution sensing, control and capture, as a tailpipe retrofit. In 2015 research began to develop several chemical processes to detoxify the captured Particulate Matter and to retain consistency and good flow rates. In 2016 they became Graviky Labs and began their global campaign to expand. Their first video launched with 2.5 million views in 10 days. Natural gas We are helping to power lives around the world with natural gas, the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017 Application FormPlease fill out all the mandatory fields to complete your application to Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017. Last date for submissions is 3 February 2017. Deadline to submit applications is now closed. FAQ'sFrequently Asked Questions for #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017 About Accelerator India Programme 1. What is the Shell #makethefuture accelerator India programme? Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India is an awards programme that invites startups and entrepreneurs to demonstrate and showcase their bright energy business ideas and solutions. The programme aims to encourage and accelerate the development of ideas that can help provide more and cleaner energy solutions. The top three finalists will receive coaching from experts on how to grow their ideas into reality, before pitching to an esteemed jury to decide the final winner. 2. What will the selection process entail? There will be 4 stages in the evaluation process: Initial screening of applications: Applications will be screened for eligibility against the assessment criteria (see section 3 for criteria) and those who do not meet the criteria will not proceed to the next round Shortlisting: 10 semi-finalists will be shortlisted based on the initial screening of applications Evaluation: Based on the assessment criterion, the teams will be ranked Accelerator event: The top three ranks will be invited to participate in an Accelerator event at Make the Future Singapore, a festival of ideas and innovation for Asia taking place from 16-19 March 2017. All applicants will need to be available to attend this event should they be selected as one of the top three finalists. Final pitch event: The top three finalists will present their idea to a panel of judges at the Shell Technology Centre Bangalore 3. How will the entries be evaluated? Criterion Description Innovation and technology How innovative this new idea/product/service is in producing more and/or cleaner energy - You will need to provide proof that demonstrates potential to accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy Commercial viability and feasibility Is the business plan realistic, comprehensive and actionable - You will be asked for evidence of sound financial planning and market understanding Bright energy idea How does the business model improve energy efficiency and/or reduce energy waste that reduces CO2 - You will be asked to provide any research or assessment/calculations undertaken that clearly demonstrates or substantiates this 4. Can you share any information on previous or similar challenges? The Shell #makethefuture Accelerator is coming to India for the first time. Shell #makethefuture currently supports seven bright energy ideas globally including GravityLight, a UK start-up that, with Shell’s support, recently launched their clean energy solution to communities in Kenya. For more information, visit www.shell.com/makethefuture. 5. What are the important dates? Activity Timeline Registration opens 16 January 2017 Registration closes 03 February 2017 Announcement of shortlisted candidates Mid- February 2017 Accelerator Event, Singapore 16 – 19 March 2017 Pitch Presentation and Winner announcement End March 2017 6. Can my organization submit more than one application? We will only accept one application per organization. 7. Can we participate if we are already getting support from another funding agency or investor? Yes. The application form will ask you to provide details of any external funding received by your team. Process 8. Is there a registration fee? There is no registration fee to participate. 9. How do I register for this awards programme? Start-ups can participate in the awards programme by registering their business ideas through an online link provided on Shell India website – www.shell.in. The link will direct the applicant to an online application form that will ask for specific details with respect to their personal information, business model/solution, contribution to India’s energy scenario and feasibility in the Indian market. 10. Who can apply? Enterprises must: Operate in an Indian city Have an India registered entity Be in post pilot or prototype stage Be available to travel to Singapore between 16th – 19th March for the Accelerator event They must focus on models or technology to: Improve energy efficiency Reduce energy waste Reduce CO2 emissions Generate energy from a new source Broaden access to energy Application Form 1. What is the language of submission? English 2. Will all application forms be read? We will read all applications that are complete and fulfill our eligibility criteria. 3. Is there a team size requirement? No. In case, of more than three members, please provide an organogram. Additionally, clearly specify the details of the team member who would be representing the business throughout the competition process. 4. Is there any age limit? 18 is the minimum age limit for the team member who would be representing the business throughout the competition process. For rest of the team members there is no age restriction. 5. Do we have to submit additional material? The application form provisions for you to submit PDF files for specific inputs. The jury will take all submissions into account. The additional material section is for supplemental material, and only if required. You will not be penalized for not submitting additional material. 6. Will our information be kept confidential? Your information will be shared with the application review team and the panel of judges at the pitch. We will take your permissions before sharing your information outside of this group. For more information, read our Terms and Conditions. Judging 1. Who will assess my application? All complete and eligible applications will be reviewed by an esteemed jury comprising of senior leaders from Shell. 2. What can we expect from the #makethefuture Accelerator event in Singapore? The #makethefuture Accelerator event in Singapore will allow finalists to meet and discuss their business plans with experienced entrepreneurs and experts. In addition, the event will include capacity building sessions that will help prepare finalists for their pitch to the judging panel at the end of March. 3. Who will judge our pitch? The jury will be diverse and inclusive drawing from international / national experts. 4. What can I win? Top 10 short-listed students and start-ups: All the 10 short-listed teams will be invited for the Shell Technology Centre inauguration event in Bangalore scheduled for end of March 2017 Top three finalists: The top three teams will be entitled to the following: A maximum of two people per finalist enterprise will be invited to attend the Accelerator Event at Make the Future Singapore, a festival of ideas and innovation engage and interact with the Indian Shell Eco-marathon (SEM) teams at Singapore; and connect with like-minded energy start-ups from across Asia Will pitch their ideas at the Shell Technology Centre inauguration event in Bengaluru Winner: The Shell jury will identify the one best energy idea/ product/ service /start-up amongst the three finalists. The winner will be will be entitled to the following: The winning start-up will be awarded prize money of ₹10,00,000 INR along with mentorship by senior Shell and industry leaders that will help build a strong value proposition and enable them to access funding to scale. 5. Who can I get in touch with? Shell-India-Communications@shell.com About the Global Campaign 6. What is #makethefuture? #makethefuture is about ideas – a global collaboration that will bring to life the bright ideas for tomorrow’s energy challenges. Globally, we are using more energy than ever before. At the same time, the significance of climate change means the world has to reduce CO2 emissions. Shell is backing innovative thinking to make today's energy go further and to find cleaner energy to take us towards a low-carbon world. Great ideas come from conversation, collaboration, partnerships; great minds coming together. For more information about #makethefuture, visit www.shell.com/makethefuture. 7. How can people get involved in the campaign? The world needs more and cleaner energy and we will achieve it through working together. We are inviting people to show their support with the simple click of a button, with the option to learn more and make a real difference. People can show their support by visiting www.shell.com/showyoursupport Station StoriesHere are some inspiring stories from our retail stations The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. Powering Hope, Re-Building LivesDevastating floods washed away much in Kerala and Coorg late last year. The beautiful hills of Coorg and the verdant greens of Kerala saw nature’s fury sweep away houses, farms, livestock Overnight, residents lost livelihoods – families struggled to stay afloat. The rains came and went, but the dark clouds remained, casting a shadow for the future of the people of Kerala and the Madikeri District in Karnataka. As a responsible company committed to partnering India through thick and thin, our company and our people were keen to help in whatever way possible. Our employees and the company contributed to create a corpus of Rs. 25.5 lakh to help alleviate the pain of those affected. In Kerala too, Shell India tied up with Care India to help 100 farmers resume get back to their fields supporting them with technical and agricultural inputs. We are also extending a helping hand to nearly 50 small businesses. Since January, the work has begun and we hope to see fruition by end May this year. Upon discussions with the Education Department of Madikeri we were informed that because of the floods, power supply had been affected leaving the villages prone to frequent power cuts. The problem posing a serious challenge to the children of the area – especially those preparing for upcoming board examinations. The conditions were worse during evenings when there was no sunlight. As a company looking to the future, we realize students are the ambassadors of the future and with a sound education they will be empowered to make a difference. They are the foundation on which India will be built. In Therefor Shell India has partnered with Habitat for Humanity India to provide solar lamps to 10th Grade students of government schools in Madikeri block of Kodagu. These solar lamps can be charged during the day and can last up to 12 hours at low brightness, with three light settings. These lamps have ultra-flexible design with a 360 degree reach that provides enough light and can be used by two people at a time. These are also a great source of affordable and clean energy which is one of the United Nation’s ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ that aims to leave a cleaner, greener and more sustainable planet for us. We are happy to report that our initiative managed to reach 2,217 students who will now be appearing for their class 10 board examinations. We may have been instrumental in providing them with the solar lamps, but it’s the students who are well on their way to lighting a bright future for themselves. Shell India feels privileged to have had an opportunity to help a few such lives for a brighter tomorrow. The rains may have washed away homes, but the dreams stay afloat. The dream of a better tomorrow and these students are the agents of change. So here’s to these bright young boys and girls, our ambassadors of tomorrow. A tomorrow that they will help shape and build for themselves and future generations. We hope for a cleaner, greener and a better India and the world. Wishing them all the best for their exams and future endeavors. Each one of us who form part of the Shell should feel proud that in good times and bad, CARE is at the core of everything we do. Make the Future - Debuts in India A global festival for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges, held in India for the first time. NXplorers in Delhi From young minds to leaders of tomorrow - Shell’s NXplorers comes to New Delhi DigitalisationDigital technologies are transforming our lives in ways that were unimaginable even a decade ago. Digitalisation is also transforming the energy industry, by improving efficiency and safety, and by facilitating the use of renewable energy. Shell is a pioneer in the development and deployment of many digital technologies. Today, we use advanced IT infrastructure and partner with some of the world’s leading cloud providers, allowing us to use technologies like artificial intelligence, robotics, the internet of things and blockchain in innovative ways. But digitalisation is about more than technology. It is also a cultural change, about people and creating more agile ways of working. We employ leading data scientists and computational scientists who unlock value from the data Shell has access to. They work in teams with other experts across our businesses to combine commercial acumen with technical and data expertise. They develop practical solutions, allowing us to learn and improve all the time. Find out more about Digitalisation in Shell Artificial Intelligence From machine learning to computer vision, deep learning to virtual assistants and autonomous vehicles to robotics, Shell has been focused on a range of technologies that have supported advances in AI. Businesses that harness new data sources and use AI and machine-learning technology to provide insights will be in a strong position to shape future commercial development and influence how society changes. A steep rise in the number of connected devices and an explosion in data volumes are already delivering unparalleled levels of business disruption. The recent explosion in data volumes and availability has led to a step change in the training of algorithms and provided important new insights: easy access to vast data volumes is making AI algorithms smarter. Find out more about Artificial Intelligence in Shell Computational Science Computational Science uses physics-based models to predict the behaviour of materials and systems using high performance computing. Computational science augments traditional research methods by accelerating and guiding experimental work and providing insight into processes and results. It is used across Shell’s businesses to predict everything from the chemistry of catalysts and batteries to capturing flow through reactors, pipelines and rocks. These are complex simulations which require high performance computing and algorithm optimisation. The Computational Science Centre of Excellence is based in Bangalore, India, but the team includes staff in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, and Houston, USA. Computational science is a broad discipline. Within Shell, it draws on expertise from more than 50 technologists in disciplines such as chemistry, physics, mathematics, material science and mechanical, chemical, aerospace and metallurgical engineering. This team has strong external links and collaborates with high-profile global companies, technology start-ups and leading academic institutions. Find out more about Computational Science in Shell Make the Future - Debuts in India A global festival for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges, held in India for the first time. NXplorers in Delhi From young minds to leaders of tomorrow - Shell’s NXplorers comes to New Delhi Shell.ai Hackathon for Sustainable and Affordable Energy - Windfarm layout OptimisationAround 5000 contestants signed up to compete in the Windfarm Layout Optimisation coding challenge. 14 teams have made the finalist shortlist. 8 have emerged as the winning teams. The world needs to move to a cleaner energy system if it is to meet growing energy demand while tackling climate change. In April 2020, Shell shared its ambition to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050, or sooner. Renewable electricity is central to this ambition. Electricity is the fastest-growing part of the energy system and, when generated from renewable sources such as wind, has a big role to play in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We see digitalisation and Artificial Intelligence as key enablers to the energy transition. About the Shell.ai Hackathon for Sustainable and Affordable Energy The Shell.ai Hackathon for Sustainable and Affordable Energy kicked-off on September 14th, focusing on a Windfarm Layout Optimisation coding challenge. The participants were invited to optimise the placement of 50 wind turbines of ‘100 m rotor diameter to help maximise the AEP (Annual Energy Production), each on a hypothetical offshore wind farm area. One of the key problems of an unoptimized layout is the combined effect wind turbines can have on the wind speed distribution in a windfarm. As a wind turbine extracts energy from incoming wind, it creates a region behind it downstream where the wind speed is decreased- this is called a wake region. Note that wind turbines automatically orient their rotors, to face incoming wind from any direction. Due to the induced speed deficit, a turbine placed inside the wake region of an upstream turbine will naturally generate reduced electrical power. This inter-turbine interference is known as a wake effect. An optimal windfarm layout is important to ensure a minimum loss of power during this combined wake effect. The contestants faced challenges such as a high dimensionality, complex multimodality and the discontinuous nature of the search space. This made optimising the layout analytics difficult. But, armed with optimisation strategies and computer algorithms, around 5000 teams signed up to compete in this challenge. View Problem Statement Visit HackerEarth competition page Digital and AI Competitions Are you passionate about novel solutions that could impact the energy future? Sign up for our digital and AI competitions. Artificial Intelligence in Shell From machine learning to computer vision, deep learning to virtual assistants and autonomous vehicles to robotics, Shell has been focused on a range of technologies that have supported advances in AI. Shaping Future TogetherWe work together to transform challenge into opportunity and stay true to our purpose of powering progress together. Industry Coalition for Near Zero Emission Ambition by 2050 This industry coalition will work towards supporting the transition of India's COP 21 commitment of carbon intensity reduction to absolute carbon emissions reduction. Click here to view the Press Release SoI between NL Embassy and NITI Aayog NITI Aayog and the Embassy of the Netherlands sign Statement of Intent (SoI) to support energy sector and overall sustainable growth objectives of India. Click here to view the Press Release India 2022 Coalition Powered by Xynteo, this purpose-driven coalition gathers Indian and international businesses who share a commitment to achieving a model of growth in India that is fit for the future. Click here to know more India CEO Forum for Clean Air Initiated by CII ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development (CESD), the 'Cleaner Air - Better life' program actively engages on air pollution and implement proactive solutions in partnership with government and society. Click here to know more Sketch – India: Transforming to a net-zero emissions energy system Explore a highly challenging, but possible pathway for India to achieve a net-zero emissions energy system by 2050. The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Overcoming technology challenges We develop innovative technologies to find and safely unlock more, and affordable, energy from ever harder-to-reach places. SustainabilitySustainability at Shell is about delivering energy in a responsible way to meet the world’s growing needs. What sustainability means at Shell For Shell, sustainability means providing essential energy for a growing population, while respecting people, their safety and the environment. Environment Shell provides energy in a responsible way, helping the world move towards a future in which the energy used causes minimal impact on the planet. Communities We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of nearby communities. Safety We are committed to delivering energy responsibly and safely, preventing harm to our employees, contractors, local communities and the environment. Transparency Doing business in a clear, open way is a commitment we work hard to keep, and we promote transparency where possible throughout our industry. Reporting We have voluntarily reported – openly and honestly - on our environmental and social performance since 1997. What sustainability means at ShellFor Shell, sustainability means providing essential energy for a growing population, while respecting people, their safety and the environment. Sustainability at Shell touches on all areas of our operations. We aim to deliver the energy needed for a growing population in a responsible way - respecting people, their safety and the environment. Sustainability is essential to the longevity of our business and our role as a member of society. Our approach to sustainability is integrated across our business activities on three levels: 1. Running a safe, efficient, responsible and profitable business This is the foundation of our approach, which includes having global standards, processes and tools in place to manage safety, environment and community involvement. We aim to continuously improve the way we operate to prevent incidents and identify, avoid where possible and minimise adverse environmental and social impacts across our projects and facilities. We report on our performance in our annual sustainability report. 2. Sharing wider benefits where we operate Our business is planned for the long term, which means we can be part of a community for decades. We help to develop local economies by creating jobs, sourcing from local suppliers, and paying taxes and royalties. We support community projects that are based on the needs of the local communities. 3. Helping to shape a more sustainable energy future In the coming decades, more and cleaner energy will be needed for economic development in the face of growing environmental pressures. We are investing in low-carbon energy solutions and advanced technologies, such as those that increase energy efficiency and reduce emissions. We continue to contribute to the public dialogue on energy and climate policy. Yet, the scale of the global challenges that the world faces are too great for one company, or one sector, to resolve. We advocate business, government and civil society working together to better shape a more sustainable energy future. Shell's approach to sustainability The pyramid showing 3 levels of Shell's approach to sustainability. Level 1: Running a safe, efficient, responsible and profitable business; Level 2: Sharing wider benefits where we operate; Level 3: Helping to shape a sustainable energy future Environment Shell provides energy in a responsible way, helping the world move towards a future in which the energy used causes minimal impact on the planet. Communities We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of nearby communities. EnvironmentShell provides energy responsibly, helping the world move towards a future in which the energy we use causes minimal impact on our planet. We recognise the importance of climate change, along with our role in helping people to achieve and maintain a good quality of life. Our world needs energy to support and improve life for a growing population. Shell provides energy in a responsible way: we aim to limit any impact on the environment and support the transition towards a lower-carbon future. Towards a lower-carbon world Shell has long recognised the climate challenge and the role of energy in enabling a decent quality of life. We believe that, while technological developments will emerge, effective policy and cultural change is essential to drive low-carbon business and consumer choices and opportunities. Shell supports the establishment of government-led carbon “pricing” mechanisms that deliver a meaningful cost on CO2 emissions, necessary to create transitions to lower-carbon power and fuel options. Learn more about climate change and the energy transition Discover what we are doing to achieve a cleaner energy future Preventing spills Oil or product spills damage the environment and endanger our employees and neighbouring communities. To avoid spills and leaks of hazardous substances, we work hard to make sure our facilities are well designed, safely operated, and appropriately inspected and maintained. We invest in the equipment and human expertise we need to deal with any spills that happen. Air quality Producing and using fossil fuels can affect air quality. We have developed more efficient transport fuels for customers and focused on improving motorists’ fuel efficiency. We also work to reduce air pollution from our operations, including limiting emissions of nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide and volatile organic compounds. Find out more about Shell and cleaner fuels Learn more about how we help customers reduce their emissions Fresh water We take steps to manage our use of water and apply new approaches and technologies to reduce our use of fresh water. We comply with water regulations wherever we operate and also set our own mandatory water standards, which match best practice for our industry. We tailor our use of fresh water to local conditions, as water constraints tend to affect people at the local or regional level. In some cases, we use alternatives to fresh water in our operations; these include recycled water, processed sewage water and desalinated water. Find out more about Shell and fresh water Biodiversity Our projects can affect local biodiversity and dependent communities. We apply stringent standards to help reduce any impacts our operations may have, particularly in critical habitats, which are areas that are rich in biodiversity or under protection. We work with several conservation organisations, including Earthwatch, the International Union for Conservation of Nature, The Nature Conservancy, and Wetlands International. Our projects with biodiversity partners include working to restore natural habitats and ecosystems close to our operations. Discover more about our work in biodiversity and our projects to protect the land and sea What sustainability means at Shell For Shell, sustainability means providing essential energy for a growing population, while respecting people, their safety and the environment. Communities We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of nearby communities. Hazira coastline gets new lease of lifeOnce barren, an area of 1,200 hectares along the Hazira peninsula now thrives with flora and fauna. The land even provides food and extra income to local residents, thanks to an eco-restoration project Shell and its partners initiated. Naresh, a fisherman, used to live in a village with a barren coastline. Today the coastline – along the Hazira peninsula – thrives with mangrove plantations. Mudskippers and crabs have flourished, and locals go there for their daily catch. “I can easily get my food here,” said Naresh. He is one of several thousand local residents who have benefitted from the coastline restoration project. It started when Shell and a joint venture partner decided to build a liquefied natural gas terminal in 2005. The terminal operates and supplies LNG to many customers across different industries. It is one of the largest international investments in India’s emerging energy sector and has reduced the country’s energy supply shortfall as demand has grown. In tandem with the construction, the partners decided to also help regenerate an area of 1,200 hectares in the peninsula. They worked with the government and local residents, as well as a local non-government organization. Residents were mobilised to help plant mangrove saplings, providing them with extra income. Since then, a green belt has grown around their village. The region has also experienced an increase in marine biodiversity, as fish, flora and fauna, have multiplied. Another 35,000 non-mangrove saplings were planted at the backyards of villagers’ houses and in common area like schools and cemeteries. Shrubs and plants were planted as fodder near mangroves to prevent cattle from grazing and destroying the vegetation. “I am very pleased with the transformation which has been brought to my village,” said Bhagubhai, headman of Junagam village in Hazira. “There is more greenery and more livelihood opportunities. I am very satisfied with what has happened.” What sustainability means at Shell For Shell, sustainability means providing essential energy for a growing population, while respecting people, their safety and the environment. Environment Shell provides energy in a responsible way, helping the world move towards a future in which the energy used causes minimal impact on the planet. CommunitiesWe aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of neighbouring communities. We work closely with them to manage the social impacts of our business activities, address any concerns about our operations, and enhance the benefits that we are able to bring. Helping to make Indian roads safer Ensuring healthier eyesight through Shell India eye camps COVID-19 Relief and Recovery Activities At Shell, it is important for us to do our part. We are committed to collaborating, engaging with communities and being a valued contributor to the society, at all times. Access 2 Energy – Clean Cooking With funding from Shell, the Clean Cooking Alliance is encouraging the use of cleaner cookstoves and fuels. The campaign is tailored to women, who are most affected by air pollution in households Doctor in a locked-down community Near the north-west coast of India, a doctor has been working to help those finding life especially hard during the COVID-19 lockdown. This is his story. What sustainability means at Shell For Shell, sustainability means providing essential energy for a growing population, while respecting people, their safety and the environment. Environment Shell provides energy in a responsible way, helping the world move towards a future in which the energy used causes minimal impact on the planet. The COVID-19 pandemic has completely changed our lives. These are truly unprecedented times that have affected the nation’s healthcare systems, leaving millions at the risk of exposure and adding livelihood challenges for many, including migrant workers. At Shell, it is important for us to do our part. We are committed to collaborating, engaging with communities and being a valued contributor to the society, at all times. COVID-19 does not and will not change this. Our primary role is to ensure a reliable energy supply to essential services y such as healthcare, food distribution and sanitization. Along with keeping our employees, contractors and customers safe, we are safeguarding access to critical products and ensuring that community has the resources they need during this crisis. As the impact of COVID-19 grows, so does the demand for social services. We are especially mindful of those experiencing hardship during this time and are responding where we can to the evolving needs of the communities. We along with our NGO partners and staff volunteers have made an impact on the lives of more than 150,000 people starting from April 2020. Grocery kits and meal distribution Recognizing that from migrant workers to drivers, many communities have lost their source of livelihood due to COVID-19, Shell India distributed more than 35,000 grocery kits and 14,800 meals through community kitchens to vulnerable communities in order to support them with basic health and nutrition. In a span of two months, 16,000 grocery kits were distributed by Shell staff to vulnerable communities/daily wage workers around Shell fuel stations, along with local authorities, in more than 15 cities. Our teams across cities and towns consulted with local authorities to identify people who need this help the most. Along with NGO partners, Shell’s team also rallied their wide distributor network to reach out to nearly 12,000 truckers and allied transport staff stranded at borders, with relief kits across 22 cities in India (https://www.shell.in/motorists/oils-lubricants/rimula-truck-heavy-duty-engine-oil/rimula-cares.html) In Bangalore, 1,600 vulnerable families from fence line villages of BK Halli were given grocery kits, ensuring that families have access to essential items like wheat flour, lentil, rice, oil and sugar that will support them for a few weeks. Similarly, 800 vulnerable families in villages around our Lubricants Blending Plant in Taloja, Mumbai have also been provided with grocery and hygiene items. Besides this, 2,575 below poverty line families of Halpati fishermen in Hazira gas fence line villages have been provided with grocery kits. Essential groceries have also been provided to community kitchens in two locations of Surat city for providing daily food to migrant labourer’s and poor families.Ramesh Rathod, is a fisherman by profession and belongs to the Halpati Community. He lives with his wife and two children. Like many others, Ramesh and his family faced livelihood challenges due to COVID-19 lockdown. He was unable to earn and feed his family for days and was faced with a dearth of groceries due to no source of income. Shell provided grocery kits to support him to feed his family. “Shell helped us by providing the grocery kit which is enough to manage our basic food requirements for about 25 days. This was a much-needed support during these tough times and for that, we are very grateful to Shell”, Ramesh shared. Ensuring safety and wellbeing through hygiene kits Shell India distributed more than 3,000 hygiene kits and helped in creating health awareness among Uber Medic/essential drivers who are providing services to the communities during these difficult times. Providing free health checkups to vulnerable communities The community health clinic set up by Shell in Hazira is providing free health checkups to all its patients. Till June 2020, more than 1,300 patients from economically weaker sections have been treated at the Hazira Medical facility during the lockdown period. During these uncertain times, the medical facility has been a much-needed support for the villagers to help secure their health and wellbeing. (Doctor in a locked-down community) Shell Heroes contributing a part of their salary We’re proud that so many Shell India employees have contributed to the community in whatever way they are able to either directly or through donations including voluntarily donating a part of their salary towards Shell’s. COVID–19 initiatives. The amount collected has been channeled through credible NGO partners, Vision Spring (http://visionspring.org/) Habitat For Humanity (https://www.habitat.org/ap) and Janadhare Trust (http://www.janadhare.org/) to support relief activities. Shell India will continue to guide its available resources towards COVID-19 relief efforts across India to support the people in need and help reduce the impact on daily life of economically marginalized and vulnerable people in the community. #strongerasone #covidcare Access 2 Energy – Clean Cooking With funding from Shell, the Clean Cooking Alliance is encouraging the use of cleaner cookstoves and fuels. The campaign is tailored to women, who are most affected by air pollution in households #DriveSafeIndia EyeCamps India’s truck drivers do not get an easy ride. Away from their families for months at a time, their work requires concentration day and night. Some need to continue driving, despite poor eyesight, to provide for their families. But a new campaign by Shell aims to make their lives a little safer. Communities We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of nearby communities. Access 2 Energy – Clean CookingIn India, air pollution in homes from cooking contributes to more than 1 million deaths every year. With funding from Shell, the Clean Cooking Alliance is encouraging the use of cleaner cookstoves and fuels. Project: Social impacts: Location: Status: In India, air pollution in homes from cooking contributes to more than 1 million deaths every year. With funding from Shell, the Clean Cooking Alliance is encouraging the use of cleaner cookstoves and fuels. The campaign is tailored to women, who are most affected by air pollution in households. It includes informational videos and demonstrations of wearable technologies, such as bangles that can sense the level of air pollution. So far, the campaign has reached more than 1.1 million people. HEALTH - Raising awareness of the health benefits of clean cooking. Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, India, District names i.e Sultanpur and Faizabad (UP) and Anand and Aravali (Guj) Complete The Clean Cooking Alliance’s Behavior Change Communication Campaign in India aimed to influence consumer purchasing decisions and encourage targeted households to consistently use cleaner, more modern stoves and fuels in two states – Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Initiated in early 2019 by the Alliance, Shell, Tata Trusts, and partners, the one-year, multi-level, multi-channel campaign engaged people at district, village, and household levels through an integrated mix of communication vehicles. At the district level, the campaign conducted outreach through a mix of digital (Whatsapp, SMS) and traditional media (mobile, radio, newspaper). At the village level, street plays, wall stickers, and school-based programs were used to reach the target audience. At household level, community outreach partners, Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) and DharmaLife (DL) led door to door and interpersonal activities through their teams of local, female community workers. The campaign also tested innovative technologies like Bluetooth enabled stove sensors to gauge changes in stove usage and wearable, Carbon Monoxide Exposure Limiter (COEL) bangles, programmed with customized behavior change messages in Hindi and Gujarati. The campaign slogan “Smoke is Disappearing, Progress is Appearing” highlighted the importance of continued use of clean cooking solutions after initial purchase. Through communicating the benefits of cleaner stoves and fuels and encouraging consumer choice by promoting a range of cleaner cooking options, the campaign sought to make cleaner cooking the new norm. #DriveSafeIndia EyeCamps India’s truck drivers do not get an easy ride. Away from their families for months at a time, their work requires concentration day and night. Some need to continue driving, despite poor eyesight, to provide for their families. But a new campaign by Shell aims to make their lives a little safer. COVID-19 Relief and Recovery Activities At Shell, it is important for us to do our part. We are committed to collaborating, engaging with communities and being a valued contributor to the society, at all times. Communities We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of nearby communities. Nirmal Singh, from the city of Jalandhar in the north Indian state of Punjab, has been a truck driver for 40 years. It is hard work, which sees him plying highways across India for weeks - sometimes months - on end. He drives at least 12 hours daily, alternating with his co-driver. One day, on a rare trip home, Singh tuned into a cricket match on television. He could not see the numbers on the screen, so he asked his wife to tell him the score. “She dragged me to the optometrist the next day. And that is when I got my first pair of spectacles,” he says. That was 20 years ago and Singh, now 55, has not had his eyes tested since. “I have not seen clearly for the last six months,’’ he confesses, pointing to his glasses, which are scratched and dirty. Singh worries about his safety, and those of others on the road. For good reason. India has one of the worst traffic accident records in the world. According to figures from the country’s Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, there is one road fatality every four minutes. About a quarter of these accidents involve heavy commercial vehicles, such as trucks and buses. But a campaign called #DriveSafeIndia, run by Shell India and VisionSpring, a non-governmental organisation which aims to provide affordable glasses to people around the world, is helping drivers like him. Eye-testing centres have been set up at truck stops, ports and other transport hubs where truck drivers congregate “This is really convenient for us because we are constantly on the road and don’t have time to get our eyes checked,’’ says Singh, who got in line at a truck stop in Bangalore, some 2,600 km away from his home, on a trip transporting apples from Kashmir. Bernd Marx, Shell’s global general manager for road safety, says: “This campaign is especially important in India, where road fatalities are high. Shell takes the health and safety of our employees very seriously, so all our drivers get their eyes checked regularly. However, we know this is not necessarily the case for other drivers.“About 70% of truck drivers have some vision problem, mild or acute,” says Anshu Taneja, head of VisionSpring in India. “The younger drivers are starting to experience myopia and are, therefore, getting their first pair of glasses. The older ones either need to replace their old spectacles or get reading glasses.’’ Since the start of the campaign in February 2019, Shell and VisionSpring have set up eye-testing centres across four states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Some 120,000 drivers have had their eyes tested and received 84,000 pairs of free prescription spectacles, mostly on the spot. Drivers with more complex vision problems, such as astigmatism, are told to return at a later date to pick up their glasses. Suresh Pandey, from Uttar Pradesh, 1600 km away, is one of them. “I do not know when I will be back this way again because I go where the work takes me. But I now have a prescription, so I can get glasses made on my own at the next stop,’’ he says. Those with even more serious eye problems such, as cataracts, are directed to nearby hospitals and clinics for follow-up treatment which is outside the #DriveSafeIndia campaign. According to the World Health Organization, 1.35 million people around the world die in road traffic accidents every year, with the figure increasing by 100,000 in the last three years. They are also the leading cause of death for young people between the ages of five and 29. But efforts are being made to address the problem. In February 2020, representatives from 80 countries will meet at the Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety in Stockholm, Sweden, to set targets for road safety. The #DriveSafeIndia campaign is also doing its part. Its work has been recognised with a Prince Michael International Road Safety Award, which acknowledges outstanding global achievements in reducing traffic accidents. “We cannot control road conditions or monitor a driver’s speed or hours. But we can certainly help those who recognise they have vision issues and want to take responsibility for their own safety and that of others on the road,’’ says Nitin Prasad, chair of Shell India. The campaign aims to conduct 365,000 eye tests by the end of 2020, expanding to other states and including more partners, he adds. This will help more truck drivers like Singh, who is ready to hit the road with his new spectacles. This program won prestigious “Prince Michael International Road Safety Awards” and "Golden IPRA Awards” Shell India and Ministry of Road Transport and Highways roll out road safety program, #DriveSafeIndia to reach 5,000,000 millennials New Delhi, Shell Companies in India, in partnership with the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), Government of India, has rolled out #DriveSafeIndia, a behaviour change program to drive home the importance of safe driving practices aiming to reach 5 Million millennials leveraging social media and on ground activities. Shell India and VisionSpring to make driving safer Expand vision correction program to serve 3.65 lakh commercial drivers and transportation workers by 2020 Shell India and VisionSpring win global award for #DriveSafeIndia campaign The Prince Michael Award Recognizes Outstanding Contributors to Improving Road Safety. Access 2 Energy – Clean Cooking With funding from Shell, the Clean Cooking Alliance is encouraging the use of cleaner cookstoves and fuels. The campaign is tailored to women, who are most affected by air pollution in households COVID-19 Relief and Recovery Activities At Shell, it is important for us to do our part. We are committed to collaborating, engaging with communities and being a valued contributor to the society, at all times. Communities We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of nearby communities. Shell Foundation Programmes in IndiaShell Foundation aims to create solutions to Global poverty and environmental challenges linked to energy and globalisation. This involves applying market principles and Business DNA - Business thinking models and discipline - to figure out solutions to developmental challenges This 'more than money' approach is what sets us apart from traditional foundations. Shell Foundation : Enterprise Solutions to Scale Shell Foundation is an independent charitable foundation that was established by Royal Dutch Shell in 2000 to catalyse scalable and sustainable solutions to global development challenges. It applies business thinking to a range a range of social and environmental issues linked to the energy industry – harnessing links to its corporate founder where possible to deliver greater development impact. An ‘Enterprise-based’ Approach The magnitude of global poverty requires solutions that reach billions rather than millions of people. Yet finding solutions that are effective on this scale is extremely difficult. We believe that “enterprise-based solutions” are by far the most efficient way to generate development impact at scale in ways that are independent of charitable aid or subsidy in the long-term. For us this means finding innovative ways to: identify the market failures that prevent products and services with the potential to support sustainable development from reaching the poor co-create new business models with long-term ‘social enterprise’ partners, both for-profit and non-profit, to service these markets, and provide “more than money” business development support to help these partners develop the skills, capacity and incentives to operate at scale and achieve financial independence. We believe that creating pioneers and building new markets can remove barriers to development – and contribute to sustainable employment and equitable economic growth. Targeting Scale and Sustainability By learning from both success and failure since our inception, Shell Foundation has evolved a new model to deliver sustainable impact at scale. We now have several long-term strategic partners that serve large numbers of people across many countries and continents, addressing markedly different development challenges such as sustainable job creation, urban mobility, access to energy, clean cooking and sustainable supply chains. Cleaner Cooking: a major social, economic and environmental challenge Nearly half the people in India cook their daily meals on open fires or on traditional, inefficient cookstoves. This creates high fuel costs and thick toxic smoke which results in nearly 500,000 deaths each year and contributes to climate change. Since 2002 Shell Foundation has been working to create a viable market for “clean” cookstoves in India: stoves that significantly reduce fuel usage, fuel emissions and cooking time. In 2007 Shell Foundation co-founded Envirofit as a global strategic partner to design, produce and distribute clean cookstoves. With over 300,000 stoves sold, Envirofit is now the clean cookstove market leader across India. Access to Reliable Electricity 480 million Indians still don’t have regular access to reliable electricity. Since 2008, Shell Foundation has been working with a team of talented entrepreneurs in Bihar, one of India’s poorest states, to scale up a rural electrification company called Husk Power Systems. The company generates electricity through the gasification of rice husk – an abundant waste feedstock found throughout India’s rice belt – and sells that electricity on a pay-as-you-go basis to local communities. With over 80 power plants, Husk Power Systems now serve over 200,000 people in Bihar state – with plans to expand to nationwide over the next year. A man unloading plants from his motorbike Sustainable solutions to urban mobility problems in developing world cities Co-created in 2002 by Shell Foundation and the World Resources Institute, EMBARQ is a global network of transport experts that finds sustainable solutions to urban mobility problems in over populated developing world cities. EMBARQ India’s team has worked with the Ministry of Urban Development, other government institutions and several cities to ensure that high quality infrastructure and systems are implemented – and that appropriate capacity is built locally to manage and expand these sustainable mobility systems. In Ahmedabad, for example, EMBARQ has helped implement projects including the 27-km expansion of a dedicated lane for extended buses that now carry more than100,000 passengers a day. Last mile retail distribution to rural India Shell Foundation is working with the rural marketing company, Project Dharma, a social enterprise established in September 2009, to serve the needs of rural households at the Bottom of the Pyramid by creating a rural distribution network providing customised products and services sold at a socially affordable price point. The company provides income generating opportunities for rural entrepreneurs and consumers in order to create sustainable livelihoods at the rural level. Creating More Sustainable Global Cotton Supply Chains CottonConnect was established in 2009 as a company with a social purpose, in collaboration with European retailer C&A and Textile Exchange (formerly Organic Exchange), to work with retailers and brands to make the world’s cotton supply chains more sustainable. CottonConnect provides training to Indian farmers in Gujarat on sustainable farming best practice and provides links to major international retailers who are interested in sourcing sustainable cotton as well as optimising their supply chains. To-date CottonConnect has worked with over 50,000 farmers in India. What sustainability means at Shell For Shell, sustainability means providing essential energy for a growing population, while respecting people, their safety and the environment. Environment Shell provides energy in a responsible way, helping the world move towards a future in which the energy used causes minimal impact on the planet. Online Sustainability Report Discover what we say about our approach to sustainable development in our online Sustainability Report 2016. Helping to make Indian roads saferEnsuring healthier eyesight through Shell India eye camps Across India, around 150,000 people are killed in road and traffic collisions every year, according to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. Put simply, this ranks India among countries with the worst crash statistics in the world. A quarter of these accidents involve heavy commercial vehicles, such as trucks and buses. They are caused by bad driving practices such as speeding, driving under the influence and not using of seat belts. And there is another contributing factor: poor eyesight and impaired vision. To contribute to road safety, in 2019 Shell India launched the Drive Safe India -programme along with VisionSpring, our implementation partner for carrying out eye check-ups and distribution of free spectacles to those in need. A study conducted by VisionSpring to assess the impact of impaired vision on road safety showed that 25% of India’s truck drivers do not meet eyesight requirements to hold a driving license. The target beneficiaries of the programme were the truck drivers and allied transport workers such as mechanics and helpers across different states. Drive Safe India eye camps are set up in transport hubs, ports and parking bays where truck drivers convene. The programme continued throughout 2020 reaching more truck drivers. By March 2021, we had screened 266,797 drivers and out of which, we were able to address vision issue of 175,273 (65% of total drivers screened) drivers by providing them free pairs of spectacles. The programme has played a key role in raising safety awareness of drivers such as Jugal Kishore, a 43-year-old heavy commercial vehicle driver from New Delhi who visited the eye camp. He has spent the last 20 years driving across Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and New Delhi route, both at odd hours and regularly through tough conditions. And he now has difficulty to clearly see the road signs and read newspaper. During his eyesight test, he was diagnosed with near and distant vision issues and received a new pair of spectacles. He has understood the importance of maintaining good vision and having regular eye checkups and insists on spreading the awareness of healthy eyesight among fellow drivers to make roads safer. Jugal Kishore stated, “Having a good eyesight is an essential requirement in his profession. I suggest that every driver must get his eyes screened for keeping the roads safe”. As a result of COVID-19 and stay-at-home orders, eye camps were not operational from the end of March until September 2020. As restrictions eased, the eye camps restarted with new COVID-19 guidelines in place including sanitation measures, thermal screening and social distancing target. “Getting road safety right is one of our topmost priorities and we are confident that our efforts will be fruitful for all,” said Nitin Prasad, Chairman,Shell Companies in India. During these challenging times, truck drivers in particular played a vital role, both for Shell and all other industries, allowing people across India to get through the first year of the pandemic. “Keeping them healthy and safe, keeps our economy healthy and safe. The ability to see clearly is the most basic and most essential of their needs. It is our sincere endeavor to continue playing a part in keeping Indian roads safe”, he added. Access 2 Energy – Clean Cooking With funding from Shell, the Clean Cooking Alliance is encouraging the use of cleaner cookstoves and fuels. The campaign is tailored to women, who are most affected by air pollution in households COVID-19 Relief and Recovery Activities At Shell, it is important for us to do our part. We are committed to collaborating, engaging with communities and being a valued contributor to the society, at all times. Communities We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of nearby communities. At 9am, Dr Prakash Maradia starts to receive the first patients of the day. The temperature is already 28 degrees Celsius (28°C). By midday, it will be nudging 40°C. Dr Maradia, a married father-of-two, gave up his thriving private practice to spend what he expects to be the last stage of his career among India’s less privileged inhabitants. Today, he serves the community of Hazira in Gujarat, India. His base, the Hazira Community Medical Centre, is funded by Shell and operated by the non-governmental organisation (NGO) Kantha Vistar Satatyapurna Vikas Samity (KVSVS). His patients are drawn from Hazira’s population of 5,000 permanent residents and around 10,000 migrants who came seeking work: from Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, even Bihar, on the opposite side of India. They are surrounded by industrial sites, including one operated by Shell Energy India, formerly known as Hazira LNG, a cargo port, liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal and regasification complex. But India’s COVID-19 lockdown has left many businesses operating with only skeleton staffs, if at all. Many Hazira residents had jobs that required them to be on-site and could not be done from home. They found themselves out of work. A small number of those living in Hazira have jobs at Shell’s port and LNG complex. Even if they are not working during the lockdown, they are all still receiving their salaries – across the country Shell has temporarily reduced staffing levels, while seeking to protect the incomes of its India-based employees and contractors. Helping the people of Hazira Many people in Hazira, however, have been less protected. “So many are earning nothing,” says Dr Maradia, “It is very difficult for them even to afford food.” Across India, Shell has distributed around 35,000 packs containing food and groceries. More than 2,500 went to the most vulnerable people in Hazira and nearby settlements. Shell, KVSVS and Dr Maradia, in consultation with Hazira’s local council, waived the medical centre’s small fee of 30 rupees (40 US cents) for a visit to the doctor and a course of medicines. Shell will cover the shortfall. “When you are struggling to manage for food,” says Dr Maradia, “Having to spend even a small amount on your health would be a big burden.” The move was appreciated. “By not charging anything when people are struggling,” says council member Jayanti Khalasi, “The medical centre is doing a very good job for the people of Hazira.” Many in the community are still having a tough time. Although India’s lockdown was partially eased on May 18, industries around Hazira continue to operate with limited staff numbers to follow social distancing guidelines. Health care and clean water Shell’s funding of the medical centre covers the pay of Dr Maradia and his team: a nurse, two locally recruited receptionists and a housekeeper. Opened in 2003, the medical centre gave people earning around 8,000-15,000 rupees ($105-$200) a month access to proper primary health care at affordable prices. The 30-rupee fee covered operating expenses including the cost of medicines. It also ensured residents had a stake in the medical centre and felt able to have a say in how it was run. Residents also benefit from a water treatment plant, installed with the financial and technical assistance of Shell. They can buy 20 litres of clean, drinkable water for four rupees (five cents). “We now see far fewer cases of water-borne diseases,” says Dr Maradia. Reassurance and advice As of May 28, no confirmed cases of COVID-19 had occurred in the Hazira community. “Patients still need reassurance,” says Dr Maradia. “I also advise about washing with soap and water, avoiding coughing over people, and social distancing.” Dr Maradia and his team have treated many hundreds of patients since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25. They have provided medicines for common illnesses, and referred anyone with something more serious to the hospital in the city of Surat, around 30 kilometres away. Today, as the heat intensifies, they report another small victory. “It was a woman who works as a cobbler,” says Dr Maradia. “She and her husband support two children on a very low income. On Saturday, she had severe vomiting and dizziness. Today, after taking the medicines I gave her, she is fine, and very happy.” He does not regret the switch from private practice. “I like my patients very much,” he says. “They are good people.” Access 2 Energy – Clean Cooking With funding from Shell, the Clean Cooking Alliance is encouraging the use of cleaner cookstoves and fuels. The campaign is tailored to women, who are most affected by air pollution in households #DriveSafeIndia EyeCamps India’s truck drivers do not get an easy ride. Away from their families for months at a time, their work requires concentration day and night. Some need to continue driving, despite poor eyesight, to provide for their families. But a new campaign by Shell aims to make their lives a little safer. Communities We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we work, by contributing to the well-being of nearby communities. Safety We are committed to delivering energy responsibly and safely, preventing harm to our employees, contractors, local communities and the environment. Our Goal Zero ambition Our Goal Zero ambition is to achieve no harm and no leaks across all of our operations. Everyone working for Shell strives to achieve this goal each day. To achieve Goal Zero, we focus on the three areas of safety hazards which have the highest risks for our type of activities: personal, process, and transport safety. We want to help improve safety performance throughout the energy industry and work in partnership with industry trade associations and professional bodies to share our safety experience, standards and knowledge with other operators and contractors. Learn more about our Goal Zero ambition Personal safety Safety is our top priority. Everyone who works for us, or with us, has an important part to play in making Shell a safer place to work. We expect them to comply with the safety rules and regulations relevant to their work, to intervene to prevent unsafe conditions, and to respect fellow workers and the communities in which we work. Find out more about personal safety at Shell Process safety Process safety starts at the early design phase of building facilities and continues throughout their life cycle, making sure they are operated safely, well maintained, and inspected regularly to identify and deal with any potential process safety hazards. Read more about process safety across Shell Transport safety Road transport is a necessary part of many of our business activities. In total Shell employees and contractors drive almost 1 billion kilometres every year in more than 70 countries – this is equivalent to 70 laps of the earth each day! Our road safety philosophy focuses on the areas of risk such as the capability of the driver, condition of the vehicle, road conditions and local environment. We also try to reduce the need to use road transport in the first place: the safest journey is the one not taken. Learn more about transport safety at Shell Discover more about our road safety programmes in communities where we operate Employee health and welfare We believe that good working and living conditions help to bring about a safer and more productive working environment. Find out more about how we try to keep our employees and contractors safe and well Product stewardship We produce crude oil and natural gas and refine them into fuels, lubricants and chemicals that are used to make many everyday items. We try to take care that these products are safe, from production to disposal. We call this product stewardship. To understand and manage the potential health, safety and environmental risks presented by our products, we evaluate them carefully. We work closely with our customers and suppliers, monitor any changes in the science behind our products, and support research if it helps us to reduce their risks even further. Learn more about product stewardship at Shell, and find safety data sheets and product stewardship summaries What sustainability means at Shell For Shell, sustainability means providing essential energy for a growing population, while respecting people, their safety and the environment. Transparency Doing business in a clear, open way is a commitment we work hard to keep, and we promote transparency where possible throughout our industry. Shell Safety DayShell’s International Safety Day is an annual event that is held across all countries of its operations. With over a decade of Safety Days so far, the safety culture is embedded into the Shell families. About Safety Day On Safety Day all employees and contractors are encouraged to take time for safety. It’s a day for engagement, for sharing ideas and good practices, for working in teams on plans to deliver continuous improvement in safety performance, and to reflect on our personal and collective commitment to safety. Why safety is important to Shell The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that more than 230,000 people are killed in road accidents in India every year, the equivalent of a life lost every five minutes. Man-made disasters cover a wide range of events created largely due to accidents, negligence or sometimes even by human design, which result in huge loss of lives and property every year in India, often greater than even natural disasters. These incidents can be avoided and lives can be saved, if one takes safety seriously and accords it supreme importance. In the oil and gas industry, risks to human life are high relative to other sectors - perhaps an inevitable consequence of the challenging environments in which it operates. According to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 2014, the occupational fatality rate was one of the highest globally from 1993-2010 compared with other professions. And that is why ‘Safety’ for Shell is paramount. With safety embedded in our work culture, it helps us to ask the right questions and make the right choices at every step – whether in engineering design or implementation, during maintenance or routine administration tasks. Our goal is to safety a part of people’s daily habits. What is Goal Zero? Goal zero represents a renewed commitment to our vision of “No Harm”. It means really believing that we can operate effectively and still have zero fatalities, zero accidents and zero significant incidents. Goal Zero is profoundly positive and is about changing how we think and act so that there are no failures. At Shell, we are committed to prevent accidents by managing safety in a systematic way and are introducing simpler and clearer requirements that are easier for people to understand and follow. We launched our HSSE & SP Control Framework in 2009. It sets out high level aims and is supported by a comprehensive set of company-wide requirements covering Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) and Social Performance (SP). This framework includes a set of manuals covering topics such as road and process safety, and working at heights or in confined spaces. Achieving goal zero because we care People Safety Personal safety means that our people follow the rules and work safely. We continue to improve the safety of the people who work for us. We also continue to enforce our mandatory 12 Life-Saving Rules with all employees and contractors who work for us. At least 90% of injuries and incidents are behaviour related. The hazards and unsafe behaviours that we see, and don’t challenge and change today, become the accepted behaviours of tomorrow. These 4 easy steps can help you keep yourself safe: Sense: Understanding the basics of safety (e.g. Hazard, Incident and Consequences) Know the risk. Learn about risks and consequences and understand risk levels Plan the Controls. Apply to concept of Barrier Thinking Act: Preventing Incident – Your Role. Intervene if you see an unsafe behaviour Process Safety Given the nature of the risks involved, ensuring the safety and integrity of our assets is paramount to Shell. Process safety involves making sure our facilities are well designed, safely operated and properly maintained. Our stringent approach is designed to help prevent harm to people or the environment. We identify and assess risks that have the potential to become an incident, and take the necessary steps to reduce or eliminate them. At the same time, we prepare for and are ready to respond to potential incidents. Hence we prevent process safety incidents that could place our people, our neighbours, the environment and our facilities at risk. Put simply, we aim to ensure that our assets are safe and we know it. Road Safety Each year, our employees and contractors around the world drive almost 1 billion km in more than 70 countries – a distance equivalent to 70 times around the world every day. Shell is always working to improve on road safety with ongoing training, the sharing of best practice and by developing programmes in countries that may lack the adequate laws, enforcement or infrastructure. We also work to enhance road safety in communities where we operate and share our knowledge across other sectors. We share our road safety knowledge with other companies and NGOs. For example, we are a board member of the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety (NETS) that aims to improve road safety via employees. We helped to create the NETS’ Comprehensive Guide to Road Safety™ to assist employers to progress their global road safety programmes. Shell has also shared best practice with other companies such as Abbott and Unilever, regarding road safety programmes, including mobile phone bans while driving. TransparencyDoing business in a clear, open way is a commitment we work hard to keep, and we promote transparency where possible throughout our industry. Shell believes greater transparency about the payments we make to governments is an important way to increase trust. We pay taxes and royalties to governments around the world. We are reporting our payments to governments under a variety of rules and regulations, such as the EU Accounting Directive. We continue to work on this issue and support a mandatory global reporting rule for extractive industries. We are working with a range of stakeholders to find a practical way of achieving this. Read more about our payments to governments Reporting We have voluntarily reported – openly and honestly - on our environmental and social performance since 1997. Safety We are committed to delivering energy responsibly and safely, preventing harm to our employees, contractors, local communities and the environment. ReportingWe have voluntarily reported on our environmental and social performance since 1997. We do it to be open and honest, and to demonstrate how we are contributing to sustainable development. The Shell Sustainability Report 2019, published April 7, 2020, is our 23rd report. Transparency Doing business in a clear, open way is a commitment we work hard to keep, and we promote transparency where possible throughout our industry. Safety We are committed to delivering energy responsibly and safely, preventing harm to our employees, contractors, local communities and the environment. Biofuels and alternative transport fuelsThe number of cars on the road is expected to rise to around 2 billion by 2050, with the amount of freight carried by trucks doubling. Shell believes low-carbon biofuels, together with gains in energy efficiency, are among the quickest and most practical ways to reduce CO2 emissions from road transport in the next 20 years. Biofuels Biofuels are produced from biomass, such as plants, and can be used in transport fuel. We are already the world’s largest distributor of biofuels. Now we are building our capacity in today’s biofuels and working to make them more sustainable. The CO2 performance of current biofuels depends on how they are produced. Ethanol made from Brazilian sugar cane, for example, produces around 70% lower CO2 emissions from production to use than petrol. Today’s most widespread biofuel, ethanol, is commonly made from starchy or sugary plants. Fuels for the future Shell was one of the first companies to invest in developing advanced biofuels, using crop waste or inedible plants and new conversion processes. These can potentially produce more efficient, low-carbon biofuels for blending at higher concentrations with petrol and diesel. Our biofuels research teams work with leading biotechnology companies and academic institutions. Hydrogen is likely to play a role in transport in decades to come but continues to face challenges to achieving commercial scale. We are involved in research and have invested in a number of filling stations around the world. Learn more about Biofuels and alternative transport fuels on our global website Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy Shell India Markets Private Limited Vision Shell India Markets Private Limited (“SIMPL”, “Company”) is committed to the development of India as a leading energy solutions provider by delivering strategic, scalable and sustainable Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) programs that align with the current and future needs of local communities around operations and larger society in the country. Objectives and Commitments The Company can undertake any program(s) / project(s) that are relatable to activities set out in Schedule VII, Companies Act, 2013 including: Education – To foster interest in Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (“STEM”) education in India among students, especially girls, and improve their skills and employability in energy and STEM areas, to contribute to a diverse and talented population and to also provide support for secondary and higher education to children and adults; Road Safety – To create an eco-system that promotes safe road behaviours on Indian roads by collaborating with government, like-minded corporates and NGOs to influence commercial drivers, millennials and also power safer roads; Access to Energy – To enable and facilitate Access to Energy by actively supporting, partners/ entrepreneurs/ energy providers to implement energy solutions that promote socio economic development of the community; Community Skills and Enterprise Development (CSED) – To enhance skills required to improve the employability of local communities; Environment Sustainability – To undertake locally relevant initiatives in the areas of environment sustainability and support the affected people during natural disasters; and Others – Any other program(s) / project(s) relatable to Schedule VII, Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time that are approved by CSR Committee of the Company from time to time. Selection and Implementation The Company is keen to be recognized as a catalyst and leader in social change. CSR projects are selected in pursuance to the above mentioned CSR themes to demonstrate our commitment to the development of India through programs that are the need of the hour, an area of strength for Shell and those that have significant measurable impacts on the Indian society. The CSR amount may be spent for creation or acquisition of a capital asset subject to the applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013 / CSR Rules. The Company implements its program through partner agencies that are selected basis a well-defined criteria. Governance The CSR Committee constitutes of the Directors of the Company. CSR programs or projects shall be implemented as per the extant internal governance framework following the approval of the CSR Committee. CSR Committee shall formulate and recommend an Annual Action Plan to the Board of Directors in pursuance to the CSR Policy. The CSR Committee shall allocate budget for each Project/Program and monitor the progress thereof from time to time. Monitoring and Evaluation CSR activities will be monitored closely on the progress and against key impact parameters extant internal governance framework. The CSR spend will also follow the Shell Group monitoring and evaluation process, wherever applicable, and the requirements of Companies Act, 2013 / CSR Rules. Surplus of CSR Projects, Unspent CSR Amount and Set-off of Excess CSR Expenditure Surplus arising out of CSR projects, unspent CSR amount and set-off of excess CSR expenditure shall be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of Companies Act, 2013 / CSR Rules, as may be applicable from time to time. Reporting CSR Activities will be reported through the Board's Report and will include an annual report on CSR containing particulars as specified in Companies Act, 2013 / CSR Rules. Compliance The Company shall comply with all applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013 read with CSR Rules thereof, as amended from time to time, in respect of any of the CSR project(s) / program(s). Shell Energy India Pvt Ltd Introduction 1.1 Purpose: The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy is intended for providing a framework within which Shell Energy India Private Limited (“SEIPL” or “the Company”) follows its commitment to CSR. This framework also abides with the relevant provisions of Companies Act 2013 (“CA 13”) and the Rules framed (as amended from time to time) in this regard. 1.2 Intended audience: This policy is intended for the internal and the external stakeholders of SEIPL. It will also be placed on the Website of the Shell https://www.shell.in/sustainability/shell-india-csr-policy.html 1.3 Change control: Appropriate version control will be maintained for the changes made to the CSR Policy. 2. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY: 2.1 BACKGROUND: Shell Energy India Private Limited (“the Company” or “SEIPL”) has over the years pursued goals in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a part of its belief that Companies must engage and contribute to the society and environment. SEIPL is currently implementing key CSR Projects and Programs (“CSR Projects”) in the areas of ecological balance & environmental sustainability, promoting education including employment enhancing vocational skills, promoting preventive health care and sanitation, rural development in and around Hazira, in the state of Gujarat and in the country. The various activities under the CSR Projects are implemented in collaboration with village institutions (Gram Panchayats and various village committees), NGOs, relevant Government Departments and local stakeholders, as relevant. In lines with the above said framework, SEIPL has formed this CSR policy. 2.2 DETAILS OF THE CSR PROJECTS OR PROGRAMS: In line with the requirements of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules 2014 as amended from time to time (“CSR Rules”), a list of CSR Projects to be undertaken during the year will be developed and shall be placed before the Board of Directors of the Company by the CSR Committee for approval. Subsequently, the approved list of CSR Projects shall be appended as annexure on the website of the Shell https://www.shell.in/sustainability/shell-india-csr-policy.html. SEIPL may undertake any program(s) / project(s) that are relatable to activities set out in Schedule VII, Companies Act, 2013 including: Environmental Sustainability Education Road Safety Access to Energy Sustainable Livelihoods Health Care & Sanitation Community Skills and Enterprise Development (CSED) Any other program(s) / project(s) relatable to Schedule VII, Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time that are approved by CSR Committee of the Company from time to time. The Company shall not be requiring spending in the CSR projects in case the Company does not have any profits that is, the average of the bottom-line for the preceding three years taken in line with the requirement of the CA 13 is in negative. 2.3 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE FOR MANAGING THE CSR PROJECTS: The CSR Committee of the Board consisting of three Directors will monitor the CSR projects and will meet at quarterly frequency or at a suitable periodicity as may be decided by the Committee. The quorum for forming a valid meeting of the CSR Committee will be two. The CSR Committee shall monitor the CSR projects and provide suitable recommendations and report to the Board. The Board’s report of the Company shall include an Annual Report on CSR containing particulars as specified in the Annexure of the CSR Rules. The function of the CSR Committee shall interalia, include the following: (a) formulate and recommend to the Board, the updated CSR policy from time to time which will indicate the activities to be undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII; (b) formulate and recommend to the Board, an annual action plan in pursuance of its CSR policy. The CSR Committee shall allocate budget for each Project/Program and monitor the progress thereof from time to time. (c) recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities referred to in clause (a); and (c) monitor the CSR projects. The Board of the Company shall, — a) after taking into account the recommendations made by the CSR Committee, approve the CSR Policy for the company and disclose contents of such Policy in its report and also place it on the Company’s website; and b) ensure that the activities as are included in CSR Policy of the Company are undertaken by the Company. c) The Board of a Company shall satisfy itself that the funds so disbursed have been utilized for the purposes and in the manner as approved. d) In case of ongoing project, the Board of a Company shall monitor the implementation of the project with reference to the approved timelines and year-wise allocation and shall be competent to make modifications, if any, for smooth implementation of the project within the overall permissible time period. The Board of the Company shall ensure that the Company spends, in every financial year, at least two per cent of the average net profits of the company made during the three immediately preceding financial years. The average profits shall be calculated as per the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2013 (“CA 13”). If the Company fails to spend such amount, the Board shall in its report specify the reasons for not spending the amount and treat the amount in line with the requirement of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules 2014 as amended from time to time. 2.4 SELECTION AND IMPLEMENTATION: 2.4.1 Selection: The projects identified and approved for implementation by the CSR committee shall be based on alignment with the list of activities in schedule VII of the CA 13, State and National priorities and CSR objectives of the Company. The CSR projects will not include activities undertaken in pursuance of normal course of business of the Company. 2.4.2 Implementation: i. SEIPL shall undertake execution of the selected projects either directly or in collaboration with partners like Government/ NGOs as approved by the CSR committee. ii. In case of implementation of CSR projects in partnership with NGOs, the Company shall ensure NGOs’ established three-year track record in undertaking similar CSR Projects. SEIPL shall conduct due diligence on the NGO’s and thereafter make appropriate recommendations to the Committee and the Board for consideration of the concerned NGO’s for undertaking CSR Projects. iii. The Company shall enter into Grant Agreements with the identified NGO partner(s) regarding the terms of the Funding and the manner in which such Funding shall be disbursed by the Company. Such documentation shall be in a form and substance that is acceptable to the CSR Committee and the Board. iv. The Company may also collaborate with other companies for undertaking CSR Projects in such a manner that the CSR Committees of respective companies are in a position to report separately on such projects or programs in accordance with the CSR Rules 2014. v. The Company may also collaborate with ‘Shell Pahal Social Welfare Association’ (Section 8 Company) for the implementation of the CSR projects. 2.4.3 Monitoring: The CSR Committee shall institute and follow a transparent monitoring mechanism for implementation of CSR programs/projects. A three-tier monitoring shall be established: The first-tier monitoring shall be driven by the Company’s CSR team. The team will function in close co-ordination with the implementing partners. The CSR team shall conduct periodic review meeting with implementation agency on pre agreed KPIs for qualitative and quantitative outputs/outcomes of the CSR programs. The CSR Team will also make visits to the project sites to review the progress of the projects. The monitoring plan will broadly cover the following aspects: Achievements as per project-based milestones Actual spend vs budgeted amount Beneficiaries covered under each program Implementation challenges (if any) The CSR committee at the second level will review the progress with regard to implementation and results of CSR initiatives. The Board of Directors will take a final review and accordingly pass advisory at the third level. 2.5 SURPLUS OF CSR PROJECTS, UNSPENT CSR AMOUNT AND SET-OFF OF EXCESS CSR EXPENDITURE: Surplus arising out of CSR projects, unspent CSR amount and set-off of excess CSR expenditure shall be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of Companies Act, 2013 / CSR Rules, as may be applicable from time to time. 2.6 REPORTING: CSR Activities will be reported through the Board's Report and will include an annual report on CSR containing particulars as specified in Companies Act, 2013 / CSR Rules. 2.7 COMPLIANCE: The Company shall comply with all applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013 read with CSR Rules thereof, as amended from time to time, in respect of any of the CSR project(s) / program(s). Hazira Port Pvt Ltd Introduction 1.1 Purpose: The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy is intended for providing a framework within which Hazira Port Private Limited (“HPPL” or “the Company”) follows its commitment to CSR. This framework also abides with the relevant provisions of Companies Act 2013 (“CA 13”) and the Rules framed (as amended from time to time) in this regard. 1.2 Intended audience: This policy is intended for the internal and the external stakeholders of HPPL. It will also be placed on the Website of the Shell. 1.3 Change control: Appropriate version control will be maintained for the changes made to the CSR Policy. 2. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY: 2.1 BACKGROUND: Hazira Port Private Limited (“the Company” or “HPPL”) has over the years pursued goals in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as a part of its belief that Companies must engage and contribute to the society and environment. HPPL is currently implementing key CSR Projects and Programs (“CSR Projects”) in the areas of ecological balance & environmental sustainability, promoting education including employment enhancing vocational skills, promoting preventive health care and sanitation, rural development in and around Hazira, in the state of Gujarat and in the Country. The various activities under the CSR Projects are implemented in collaboration with village institutions (Gram Panchayats and various village committees), NGOs, relevant Government Departments and local stakeholders. In lines with the above said framework, HPPL has formed this CSR policy. 2.2 DETAILS OF THE CSR PROJECTS OR PROGRAMS: In line with the requirements of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules 2014 as amended from time to time (“CSR Rules”), a list of CSR Projects to be undertaken during the year will be developed and shall be placed before the Board of Directors of the Company by the CSR Committee for approval. Subsequently, the approved list of CSR Projects shall be appended as annexure on the website of the Shell (https://www.shell.in/sustainability/shell-india-csr-policy.html). HPPL may undertake any program(s) / project(s) that are relatable to activities set out in Schedule VII, Companies Act, 2013 including: Environmental Sustainability Education Road Safety Access to Energy Sustainable Livelihoods Health Care & Sanitation Community Skills and Enterprise Development (CSED) Any other program(s) / project(s) relatable to Schedule VII, Companies Act, 2013, as amended from time to time that are approved by CSR Committee of the Company from time to time. The Company shall not be requiring spending in the CSR projects in case the Company does not have any profits that is, the average of the bottom-line for the preceding three years taken in line with the requirement of the CA 13 is in negative. 2.3 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE FOR MANAGING THE CSR PROJECTS: The CSR Committee of the Board consisting of three Directors will monitor the CSR projects and will meet at quarterly frequency or at a suitable periodicity as may be decided by the Committee. The quorum for forming a valid meeting of the CSR Committee will be two. The CSR Committee shall monitor the CSR projects and provide suitable recommendations and report to the Board. The Board’s report of the Company shall include an Annual Report on CSR containing particulars as specified in the Annexure of the CSR Rules. The function of the CSR Committee shall interalia, include the following: (a) formulate and recommend to the Board, the updated CSR policy from time to time which will indicate the activities to be undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII; (b) formulate and recommend to the Board, an annual action plan in pursuance of its CSR policy. The CSR Committee shall allocate budget for each Project/Program and monitor the progress thereof from time to time. (d) recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities referred to in clause (a); and (c) monitor the CSR projects. The Board of the Company shall, — a) after taking into account the recommendations made by the CSR Committee, approve the CSR Policy for the company and disclose contents of such Policy in its report and also place it on the Company’s website; and b) ensure that the activities as are included in CSR Policy of the Company are undertaken by the Company. c) The Board of a Company shall satisfy itself that the funds so disbursed have been utilized for the purposes and in the manner as approved. d) In case of ongoing project, the Board of a Company shall monitor the implementation of the project with reference to the approved timelines and year-wise allocation and shall be competent to make modifications, if any, for smooth implementation of the project within the overall permissible time period. The Board of the Company shall ensure that the Company spends, in every financial year, at least two per cent of the average net profits of the Company made during the three immediately preceding financial years. The average profits shall be calculated as per the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2013 (“CA 13”). If the Company fails to spend such amount, the Board shall in its report specify the reasons for not spending the amount and treat the amount in line with the requirement of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules 2014 as amended from time to time. 2.4 SELECTION AND IMPLEMENTATION: 2.4.1 Selection: The projects identified and approved for implementation by the CSR committee shall be based on alignment with the list of activities in schedule VII of the CA 13, State and National priorities and CSR objectives of the Company. The CSR projects will not include activities undertaken in pursuance of normal course of business of the Company. 2.4.2 Implementation: i. HPPL shall undertake execution of the selected projects either directly or in collaboration with partners like Government/ NGOs as approved by the CSR committee. ii. In case of implementation of CSR projects in partnership with NGOs, the Company shall ensure NGOs’ established three-year track record in undertaking similar CSR Projects. HPPL shall conduct due diligence on the NGO’s and thereafter make appropriate recommendations to the Committee and the Board for consideration of the concerned NGO’s for undertaking CSR Projects. iii. The Company shall enter into Grant Agreements with the identified NGO partner(s) regarding the terms of the Funding and the manner in which such Funding shall be disbursed by the Company. Such documentation shall be in a form and substance that is acceptable to the CSR Committee and the Board. iv. The Company may also collaborate with other companies for undertaking CSR Projects in such a manner that the CSR Committees of respective companies are in a position to report separately on such projects or programs in accordance with the CSR Rules 2014. v. The Company may also collaborate with ‘Shell Pahal Social Welfare Association’ (Section 8 Company) for the implementation of the CSR projects. 2.4.3 Monitoring: The CSR Committee shall institute and follow a transparent monitoring mechanism for implementation of CSR programs/projects. A three-tier monitoring shall be established: The first-tier monitoring shall be driven by the Company’s CSR team. The team will function in close co-ordination with the implementing partners. The CSR team shall conduct periodic review meeting with implementation agency on pre agreed KPIs for qualitative and quantitative outputs/outcomes of the CSR programs. The CSR Team will also make visits to the project sites to review the progress of the projects. The monitoring plan will broadly cover the following aspects: a. Achievements as per project-based milestones b. Actual spend vs budgeted amount c. Beneficiaries covered under each program d. Implementation challenges (if any) The CSR committee at the second level will review the progress with regard to implementation and results of CSR initiatives. The Board of Directors will take a final review and accordingly pass advisory at the third level. 2.5 SURPLUS OF CSR PROJECTS, UNSPENT CSR AMOUNT AND SET-OFF OF EXCESS CSR EXPENDITURE: Surplus arising out of CSR projects, unspent CSR amount and set-off of excess CSR expenditure shall be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of Companies Act, 2013 / CSR Rules, as may be applicable from time to time. 2.6 REPORTING: CSR Activities will be reported through the Board's Report and will include an annual report on CSR containing particulars as specified in Companies Act, 2013 / CSR Rules. 2.7 COMPLIANCE: The Company shall comply with all applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013 read with CSR Rules thereof, as amended from time to time, in respect of any of the CSR project(s) / program(s). Environment Compliance Reports from Shell Energy India Pvt. Ltd.This section contains Environmental Compliance Reports as part of Environmental Clearance accorded by Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change, Government of India. Transparency Doing business in a clear, open way is a commitment we work hard to keep, and we promote transparency where possible throughout our industry. Safety We are committed to delivering energy responsibly and safely, preventing harm to our employees, contractors, local communities and the environment. Make the Future Live, IndiaA global initiative for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges will be held at Shell Technology Centre Bangalore from November 19-22, 2019. Make the Future Live, featuring Shell Eco-marathon, is a global programme bringing people and ideas into collaborative spaces, driving towards a lower-carbon energy future. As a platform for ideas and innovation, representatives from business, academia, Government, and students will explore the future of mobility. About Shell Eco-marathon Shell Eco-marathon is a unique global programme for science, technology, engineering and maths students to design and build ultra-energy-efficient cars, and then take them out on track in competition. At Shell Eco-marathon India 2019, hundreds of students from over 20 teams will come together rising to the challenge of designing, building and test driving their energy-efficient vehicles. The first edition of Make the Future Live India, featuring Shell Eco-marathon was held successfully from the 6th to 9th of December at the Madras Motor Race Track in Chennai. In India, the event focuses on “Powering progress in mobility, together”. The event saw members of government, academia, school children, industry representatives and members of the public converge on a single platform to embark on a journey to explore ideas and innovation on the future of mobility. Shell Eco-marathon is a competition for students who are passionate about developing innovative mobility solutions. The event saw students rising to the challenge of designing, building and eventually putting the pedal to the metal and driving energy efficient vehicles. The Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Teams from colleges/universities across India competed to see who has the most energy-efficient vehicle. The idea was not to race, but collaborate and build energy efficient vehicles for the future. NXplorers Program An integral part of ‘Make the Future’ is the NXplorers Program - a global initiative to build critical thinking and complex problem-solving skills in school children in the age group of 14-19 years. Students had worked on several projects out of which the best four were put on display at the Experiential Zone. The projects on display included a smart irrigation device that can monitor the moisture content of the soil and turn on the water pump automatically whenever the moisture drops below a threshold value; Seedographer, a device that increases the resource use efficiency of seed sowing in agricultural fields. Also, on display was a smart drainage system that can divert wastewater from the storm drains, manholes and direct the same for agricultural purposes after passing through a purification process; last but not the least, a project that proposes to create energy from food waste through the process of anaerobic digestion. The NXplorers Program equips students with tools and skills necessary to address real-world issues of the food-water-energy nexus. A specialized organization in education, Learning Links Foundation, which is helping Shell implement the NXplorers Program in schools and empowers students and teachers alike to become positive agents of change for a sustainable future. In the next three years, Shell aims to take NXplorers Program to 2,60,000 students in over 3000 schools. Shell is currently implementing this Program in 14 countries globally. Ox Truck During the course of the four-day event, Shell India also launched "Ox to India" - a potential mobility solution for accessible, efficient, all-terrain transportation in developing regions. The world’s first ‘flat-pack’ truck, dubbed ‘The Ox’ is an all-terrain vehicle which can reach the remotest areas. The truck can carry a payload of 1,900 kilograms and be assembled from a flat-pack kit in less than 12 hours and transported in greater numbers wherever required. The Ox truck is a global partnership between Shell and Gordon Murray Design (GMD) and the Global Vehicle Trust (GVT). Meeting Tomorrow’s Energy Challenges Parallel to the competition, panel discussions engaged auto experts, academicians, professionals from auto companies to talk about the transition to low-carbon energy, at the business forum. Deliberations focused on the changing scenario from fossil energy to electricity, the impact of the new emission standards on the automotive sector and Indian economy, developing future cities having enough resources to fulfill the energy demand and enabling energy-related entrepreneurs to succeed. Shell Eco-marathon- Win cash awards and more! Shell Eco-marathon is a global programme, built to offer students hands-on opportunities to develop ideas and technology, knowledge and skills, within an arena of competition. OX: The Inventive Flat-Pack Truck The world’s first flat-pack vehicle, brings low-cost all-terrain mobility to rural communities in developing countries. A leading light returns to rural India New Yorker Ajaita Shah quit the bright lights of her home city, to help illuminate her parents’ native rural India. Super efficient houses make for super affordable homes Faced with the difficult decision between heating their homes or feeding their families, can super-insulated, airtight homes really make the difference for millions of Americans? Closing the gender gap in engineering & technology Shell is committed to helping women reach senior roles in engineering and technology. We aim to #makethefuture by closing the gender gap. An expedition powered by renewable energy With advanced biofuels, Shell backed polar expedition to explore the future of energy An expedition powered by renewable energyHighlighting the need for more and cleaner energy solutions, the South Pole Energy Challenge team has walked to the South Pole using only renewable energy – including advanced biofuels provided by Shell – to keep them warm, dry and fed. Explore the map below to watch video updates and stunning photography captured along the epic 600-mile journey. 600-mile trek Highlighting the need for more and cleaner energy solutions, the South Pole Energy Challenge team walked to the South Pole using only renewable energy sources, including advanced biofuels provided by Shell. Explorer Robert Swan has experienced some of the harshest environments on the planet, becoming the first man in history to walk to both poles in the 1980s. Having shown incredible mental and physical fitness, as the expedition reached the halfway point, Robert made the tough decision to return to Base Camp to allow the team to increase their pace. The remaining members of the team, consisting of Robert’s 23-year-old son Barney, expedition guide Martin Barnett and documentary filmmaker Kyle O’Donoghue, arrived at the South Pole ahead of schedule having completed this epic 600-mile trek. The role of advanced biofuels The advanced biofuels that the South Pole Energy Challenge team used were developed for this trip using a technology called IH2* that turns solid waste into biofuels, produced at Shell Technology Centre Bangalore, India. They were critical in keeping the team warm, dry and fed in one of the harshest environments on earth. Through this unique expedition, Shell and the team aim to highlight to younger generations that there is no silver bullet to the challenge of climate change. It is up to all players in society - including governments, industry, entrepreneurs and corporations like Shell to come together to develop an innovative mix of cleaner energy solutions. Along with other renewable energy sources, Shell believes that advanced biofuels will play an important role in creating lower-carbon energy systems in the future. *IH2 is a trademark of Gas Technology Institute Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017 We believe the answers to tomorrow’s energy challenges lie in the power of people’s ingenuity, and that together we can #makethefuture today. Natural gas We are helping to power lives around the world with natural gas, the cleanest-burning hydrocarbon. A breath of fresh airSmoke from open fires contributes to the death of more than four million people every year around the globe. We’re working with the Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves to foster the adoption of clean cookstoves and fuel in 100 million homes by 2020. Cleaner air for the poorest homes Around four million people die every year from pollution caused by their only means of household cooking - an open fire. The deaths are a result of three billion people across Africa, Asia and Latin America cooking in their homes using wood, charcoal and even animal dung as fuel. Open fires producing soot and greenhouse gases damage the health of families - especially women and children – but also the environment. Searching for fuels also uses up valuable time that could be spent earning a better living or attending school. But bright ideas are aiming to change all that. The Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves is a unique initiative working to create a self-sufficient global market for cleaner and more efficient stoves for cooking and heating by supporting local entrepreneurs and stimulating demand for cleaner cooking solutions. It also aims to raise awareness of the ways these stoves can reduce fuel use, cooking time and loss of life. Since 2010, Shell has committed $13 million to help the Alliance reach their goal of clean cookstoves in 100 million homes by 2020. Next to that global partnership, the Shell Foundation, an independent charity set up to tackle global development challenges, joined forces with Envirofit International to design and produce cleaner-burning stoves. Not only are the Envirofit stoves more affordable, but they can cut cooking times by 50%, reduce smoke and toxic emissions by up to 80% and use up to 60% less fuel than traditional stoves. This allows many users to cover the cost of the stove – typically between $15 and $30 – within a few months just through the fuel they save. Now that, we think, is truly a breath of fresh air. An expedition powered by renewable energy With advanced biofuels, Shell backed polar expedition to explore the future of energy Super efficient houses make for super affordable homes Faced with the difficult decision between heating their homes or feeding their families, can super-insulated, airtight homes really make the difference for millions of Americans? A leading light returns to rural IndiaNew Yorker Ajaita Shah quit the bright lights of her home city, to help illuminate her parents’ native rural India. Jaipur, India — “I saw a 5-year-old die in five seconds,” says Ajaita Shah, recalling the Indian girl enveloped by a kerosene fire at home. “There was nothing we could do.” This article was originally published by National Geographic. Not then. But since that 2008 disaster, Shah has helped cut the use of kerosene lamps in rural India by selling thousands of solar lanterns, street lights, and home lighting kits. Shah, 30, was barely out of college when she began working in Indian villages. She launched her own company, Frontier Markets, to bring safe and affordable clean energy to the northwestern region of Rajasthan, where she spends most of her time. This wasn’t what her parents had in mind. They had emigrated from India so their children would have a better life. Raised in affluent Scarsdale, N.Y., Shah graduated from Tufts University and was set to go into corporate law when she grew interested in microfinance. “They were freaking out,” she says of her parents, not exactly ready for a derring-do daughter to risk her own savings on a startup in the developing country they left behind. She’s wearing a colorful Rajasthani tunic but talking in rapid New York style as she calls herself the “black sheep of the family.” In a country where one-fourth of people lack access to electricity, Shah has made her way as one of the few women leading a business that sells clean-energy products. She’s earned plaudits—Forbes magazine's Top 30 Under 30 Social Entrepreneurs, for one—and raised more than $550,000 in funding that includes a grant from the National Geographic Society's Great Energy Challenge. She’s sold more than 85,000 solar products so far and set up 225 retail outlets to provide after-sales servicing. Half her customers have no access to the grid, and the others get only sporadic power. “It’s very useful and better than other products,” says V.M. Khan, a homeopathic doctor, of the solar LED lantern he bought last year. He has access to the grid in his village of Jalsu, but he uses the lantern when the power goes out or he visits patients in rural areas. On a 22-acre farm in the village of Mukandpura, where women tend the fields in orange- and cerise-colored saris, Manphouli Devi Yadav's family uses the lantern for cooking, studying, or checking cattle outside at night. It used kerosene lamps before the home was connected five years ago to the grid, which doesn’t provide continuous power. “Blackouts happen all the time,” Shah says. View the original article on the National Geographic website An expedition powered by renewable energy With advanced biofuels, Shell backed polar expedition to explore the future of energy A breath of fresh air Household air pollution from cooking kills over 4 million people every year. See how a simple idea could change that. Super efficient houses make for super affordable homesFaced with the difficult decision between heating their homes or feeding their families, can super-insulated, airtight homes really make the difference for millions of Americans? This article was originally published by National Geographic. With 48 million Americans living below the poverty line, many are faced with difficult decisions between, for example, heating the house or buying groceries. A passive low cost house—super-insulated and airtight to keep energy bills low—can help the poverty alleviation. Habitat for Humanity built six of them for low-income families in Washington, D.C. "It's basically as energy efficient as building gets," says Dan Hines, senior construction supervisor for the project. The original article can be viewed on the National Geographic website An expedition powered by renewable energy With advanced biofuels, Shell backed polar expedition to explore the future of energy A breath of fresh air Household air pollution from cooking kills over 4 million people every year. See how a simple idea could change that. Closing the gender gap in engineering & technologyShell is committed to helping women reach senior roles in engineering and technology. We aim to #makethefuture by closing the gender gap. "Women account for 20% of engineering graduates, yet only 11% of the engineering workforce." World Economic Forum #makethefuture gender balanced Shell has long supported and been committed to nurturing female talent. Yet external research1 suggests that women can often be pushed out of engineering and technology by stereotypes, biases and micro-inequities. Shell promotes a culture that is gender balanced. This extends to the way we hire and develop our female talent. We run leadership workshops designed specifically for women. We offer a global minimum standard for maternity leave as well as flexible working arrangements. Through long term partnerships with universities and research centers, we also help women to gain exposure in fields where they are underrepresented, like science and engineering. In the last five years, Shell has increased female representation on our Board of Directors from 8% to 33%2. We have also seen the representation of women in senior leadership positions rise from 16% in 2012 to 22% in 2017. For us, this is just the beginning. 1 We used several external sources when compiling this website including the following: McKinsey & Company - Women Matter Catalyst - Why Diversity Matters Paradigm 4 Parity World Economic Forum: Accelerating Gender Parity in the Fourth Industrial Revolution 2 Hampton Alexander Review (November 2017) and The Davies Review (2015) An expedition powered by renewable energy With advanced biofuels, Shell backed polar expedition to explore the future of energy A breath of fresh air Household air pollution from cooking kills over 4 million people every year. See how a simple idea could change that. Shell awarded among best companies for women in India Shell India has been named among the top ten best companies for Women in 2017. Seeking work-life balance Joyce Loh, HR manager with Shell in Singapore explains how working part-time benefits her family and the business. Make the Future Live, IndiaA global initiative for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges will be held at Shell Technology Centre Bangalore from November 19-22, 2019. Make the Future Live, featuring Shell Eco-marathon, is a global programme bringing people and ideas into collaborative spaces, driving towards a lower-carbon energy future. As a platform for ideas and innovation, representatives from business, academia, Government, and students will explore the future of mobility. About Shell Eco-marathon Shell Eco-marathon is a unique global programme for science, technology, engineering and maths students to design and build ultra-energy-efficient cars, and then take them out on track in competition. At Shell Eco-marathon India 2019, hundreds of students from over 20 teams will come together rising to the challenge of designing, building and test driving their energy-efficient vehicles. The first edition of Make the Future Live India, featuring Shell Eco-marathon was held successfully from the 6th to 9th of December at the Madras Motor Race Track in Chennai. In India, the event focuses on “Powering progress in mobility, together”. The event saw members of government, academia, school children, industry representatives and members of the public converge on a single platform to embark on a journey to explore ideas and innovation on the future of mobility. Shell Eco-marathon is a competition for students who are passionate about developing innovative mobility solutions. The event saw students rising to the challenge of designing, building and eventually putting the pedal to the metal and driving energy efficient vehicles. The Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Teams from colleges/universities across India competed to see who has the most energy-efficient vehicle. The idea was not to race, but collaborate and build energy efficient vehicles for the future. NXplorers Program An integral part of ‘Make the Future’ is the NXplorers Program - a global initiative to build critical thinking and complex problem-solving skills in school children in the age group of 14-19 years. Students had worked on several projects out of which the best four were put on display at the Experiential Zone. The projects on display included a smart irrigation device that can monitor the moisture content of the soil and turn on the water pump automatically whenever the moisture drops below a threshold value; Seedographer, a device that increases the resource use efficiency of seed sowing in agricultural fields. Also, on display was a smart drainage system that can divert wastewater from the storm drains, manholes and direct the same for agricultural purposes after passing through a purification process; last but not the least, a project that proposes to create energy from food waste through the process of anaerobic digestion. The NXplorers Program equips students with tools and skills necessary to address real-world issues of the food-water-energy nexus. A specialized organization in education, Learning Links Foundation, which is helping Shell implement the NXplorers Program in schools and empowers students and teachers alike to become positive agents of change for a sustainable future. In the next three years, Shell aims to take NXplorers Program to 2,60,000 students in over 3000 schools. Shell is currently implementing this Program in 14 countries globally. Ox Truck During the course of the four-day event, Shell India also launched "Ox to India" - a potential mobility solution for accessible, efficient, all-terrain transportation in developing regions. The world’s first ‘flat-pack’ truck, dubbed ‘The Ox’ is an all-terrain vehicle which can reach the remotest areas. The truck can carry a payload of 1,900 kilograms and be assembled from a flat-pack kit in less than 12 hours and transported in greater numbers wherever required. The Ox truck is a global partnership between Shell and Gordon Murray Design (GMD) and the Global Vehicle Trust (GVT). Meeting Tomorrow’s Energy Challenges Parallel to the competition, panel discussions engaged auto experts, academicians, professionals from auto companies to talk about the transition to low-carbon energy, at the business forum. Deliberations focused on the changing scenario from fossil energy to electricity, the impact of the new emission standards on the automotive sector and Indian economy, developing future cities having enough resources to fulfill the energy demand and enabling energy-related entrepreneurs to succeed. Shell Eco-marathon- Win cash awards and more! Shell Eco-marathon is a global programme, built to offer students hands-on opportunities to develop ideas and technology, knowledge and skills, within an arena of competition. OX: The Inventive Flat-Pack Truck The world’s first flat-pack vehicle, brings low-cost all-terrain mobility to rural communities in developing countries. A leading light returns to rural India New Yorker Ajaita Shah quit the bright lights of her home city, to help illuminate her parents’ native rural India. Super efficient houses make for super affordable homes Faced with the difficult decision between heating their homes or feeding their families, can super-insulated, airtight homes really make the difference for millions of Americans? Closing the gender gap in engineering & technology Shell is committed to helping women reach senior roles in engineering and technology. We aim to #makethefuture by closing the gender gap. An expedition powered by renewable energy With advanced biofuels, Shell backed polar expedition to explore the future of energy Ox in IndiaOX, the world’s first flat-pack truck, brings low-cost all-terrain mobility to rural communities in developing countries. Shorter than a large SUV, the OX can carry a payload of 1,900kg (approximately twice the capacity of most current pick-ups) with a load volume of 9.0 m3 and legally seat up to 13 people. Limited mobility in hard-to-reach communities can restrict access to basic services. The OX has the potential to broaden access to transport possibilities and help improve the quality of life in rural communities. In 2018, Shell and Global Vehicle Trust (GVT) funded a bespoke prototype OX that was re-engineered and built by Gordon Murray Design (GMD), then flat-packed and shipped to India for an outreach programme with local communities. This ‘OX to India’ mission is a partnership between Shell and GMD, working in close alignment with the GVT to deliver their original vision for the OX. This represents a crucial development stage of the vehicle, which was officially launched in 2016. The OX, based on GMD’s flexible iStream® technology, will run exclusively on Shell fluids including Shell Rimula, a hard-working and high-performing diesel engine oil designed to help heavy duty and light duty engines to run efficiently in demanding conditions. Other innovative features of the OX include: Lightweight, rugged and durable design to maximise payload for goods and people Low cost, simple maintenance through accessible components and fewer parts Designed for self-assembly, supplied fully assembled or flat-packed for easy shipping and local assembly Recognising the need for sustainable, cleaner and more energy efficient transportation solutions, Shell is collaborating and co-engineering a number of projects. In 2016, Shell partnered with Gordon Murray to co-engineer the Shell Concept Car – an ultra-efficient city vehicle that, compared to a typical city car, uses 34% less primary energy over its entire lifetime. Shell is also partnering with AirFlow Truck Company to develop a new hyper-fuel mileage Class 8 truck known as the Starship. Its aerodynamic design will seek to demonstrate improvements in fuel economy for while lowering CO2 emissions. Read the press release on OX: the inventive flat-pack truck. An expedition powered by renewable energy With advanced biofuels, Shell backed polar expedition to explore the future of energy A breath of fresh air Household air pollution from cooking kills over 4 million people every year. See how a simple idea could change that. Super efficient houses make for super affordable homes Faced with the difficult decision between heating their homes or feeding their families, can super-insulated, airtight homes really make the difference for millions of Americans? About usWe are a global group of energy and petrochemicals companies with an average of 93,000 employees in more than 70 countries. We use advanced technologies and take an innovative approach to help build a sustainable energy future. Our strategy: Powering Progress Powering Progress sets out our strategy to accelerate the transition of our business to net-zero emissions. Who we are Learn about our business and people, and how we grew from a small shop in London nearly 200 years ago. What we do Shell is an integrated energy company that aims to meet the world’s demand for energy in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. Projects and sites Read out about our projects and sites in India. The Shell brand The Shell brand promotes our values and the quality of our products and services all over the world. Reports and publications Download Shell annual reports and our other publications, or view them online. Powering ProgressGenerating shareholder value Powering Progress creates wealth for our shareholders through our shares and dividends. In this way, we support the savings and pension funds of millions of people around the world. We expect to provide strong returns by taking a dynamic approach to our business portfolio. That means continuing to provide the energy the world needs today, while increasing our investments in cleaner energy. At the same time, we will maintain financial discipline and a strong balance sheet, so that our company remains strong, resilient and ready to realise the opportunities in the energy transition. Today, we have many strengths. These include the depth of our customer relationships, our world-class trading activities and our integrated business model that produces, buys, trades, transports and sells energy around the world. We are building on these strengths to transform our company across our three business pillars of Growth, Transition and Upstream. Our Growth pillar includes our service stations, fuels for business customers, power, hydrogen, biofuels, charging for electric vehicles, nature-based solutions, and carbon capture and storage. It focuses on working with our customers to accelerate the transition to net-zero emissions. Our Transition pillar comprises our Integrated Gas, and our Chemicals and Products businesses, and produces sustainable cash flow. Our Upstream pillar delivers the cash and returns needed to fund our shareholder distributions and the transformation of our company, by providing vital supplies of oil and natural gas. By taking a dynamic approach to our portfolio, while maintaining financial discipline and a strong balance sheet, we will continue to be a compelling investment case for our shareholders. Achieving net-zero emissions Powering lives Respecting nature Our core values and focus on safety Strategy Day 2021 presentations Investor information Achieving net-zero emissions Tackling climate change is an urgent challenge. We will contribute to a net-zero world, where society stops adding to the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere. That is why we have set a target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050, in step with society and our customers. This supports the more ambitious goal to tackle climate change laid out in the UN Paris Agreement: to limit the rise in average global temperature to 1.5° Celsius. Becoming a net-zero emissions energy business means that we are reducing emissions from our operations, and from the fuels and other energy products we sell to our customers. It also means capturing and storing any remaining emissions using technology or balancing them with offsets. We are transforming our business and finding new opportunities – providing more low-carbon energy such as biofuels, hydrogen, charging for electric vehicles and electricity generated by solar and wind power. Achieving our target could mean that, by 2030, we are: providing enough renewable electricity for 50 million households; operating more than 2.5 million charging points for electric vehicles; producing eight times more low-carbon fuels; and increasing the amount of biofuels and hydrogen in the transport fuels we sell to 10%, from 3% today. We are partnering with customers, businesses and others to address emissions, including in sectors that are difficult to decarbonise such as aviation, shipping, road freight and industry. Partnering with others includes supporting government policies to reduce carbon emissions, sector by sector. We will continue to drive innovation to provide the cleaner energy that our customers need. Shell's strategy to achieve net-zero emissions In October 2021, we set a target to reduce absolute emissions by 50% by 2030, compared to 2016 levels on a net basis. This covers all emissions in Scope 1, which come directly from our operations, and in Scope 2, from the energy we buy to run our operations, under our operational control. This complements our targets to reduce the carbon intensity (Net Carbon Footprint) of the energy products we sell, in step with society. This includes short-term targets of 2-3% by 2021, 3-4% by 2022, and 6-8% by 2023 (compared to 2016). It also includes medium- and long-term targets of 20% by 2030, 45% by 2035, and 100% by 2050 (compared to 2016). We have linked the pay of more than 16,500 staff to our target to reduce the carbon intensity of our energy products by 6-8% by 2023, compared to 2016. We believe our annual oil production peaked in 2019, and we expect our total oil production to decline by 1-2% a year until 2030. We are investing around $1 billion every year in low-carbon energy such as charging for electric vehicles, hydrogen, biofuels and electricity generated by wind and solar power. We plan on increasing that to around $2 billion, provided that we can find the right commercial opportunities. We seek to have access to an additional 25 million tonnes a year of carbon capture and storage (CCS) capacity by 2035 – equal to 25 CCS facilities the size of our Quest site in Canada. By 2025 we will end routine flaring of gas, which generates carbon emissions, from the Upstream assets we operate. By 2025, we expect to have kept the methane emissions intensity of Shell-operated assets to below 0.2%. Generating shareholder value Powering lives Respecting nature Our core values and focus on safety Our climate target Renewables and energy solutions Carbon capture and storage Technology and innovation Shell scenarios Powering lives Shell helps to power lives by providing vital energy for homes, businesses and transport, for cooking, heating and lighting. The supply of affordable, reliable and sustainable energy is also crucial for addressing global challenges, including those related to poverty and inequality. That is why we are working to provide more energy to those who do not have it today. Our operations support countries and communities. We employ people in more than 70 countries, providing income and other benefits such as health care and pensions. Every year, we spend tens of billions of dollars on goods and services in the communities where we operate. Our activities also generate revenues for governments through the taxes and royalties we pay and the sales taxes we collect on their behalf. This helps fund health care, education, transport and other essential services. We make a positive difference to countries and communities by providing training and skills. This supports local economic development and livelihoods. And we strengthen local economies by promoting entrepreneurship, innovation and meaningful employment through programmes including Shell LiveWire, our enterprise development programme. We are working to become one of the most diverse and inclusive organisations in the world, a place where everyone feels valued and respected. We are focusing on four areas: gender, race and ethnicity, LGBT+ and disability. We are also creating an increasingly inclusive experience for our customers. Our partnership with the fuelService app, for example, allows drivers with a disability to request assistance at our retail sites before they start their journeys, and pay from their cars. We respect human rights in all parts of our business. Our approach is informed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. How Shell is powering lives Our ambition, by 2030, is to provide reliable electricity to 100 million people in Africa and Asia who do not yet have it. We will work to achieve 30% representation of women in our top 1,400 leaders at Shell by the end of 2021, 35% by 2025 and 40% by 2030, compared to 26.4% at the end of 2019. We will provide a safe, caring and inclusive environment for LGBT+ staff so that they can be themselves and reach their full potential. We aim to increase racial and ethnic representation across our workforce so that we better reflect the communities in which we work and live, starting in the UK and the USA and followed by the Netherlands. By 2030, we will make our global network of service stations more inclusive and accessible to customers with physical disabilities. Generating shareholder value Achieving net-zero emissions Respecting nature Our core values and focus on safety Access to energy Diversity and inclusion Human rights Communities Respecting nature For many years we have had guiding principles and standards that seek to protect the environment. Now we are stepping up our environmental ambitions and shaping them to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Our environmental ambitions include protecting and enhancing biodiversity – the plant and animal life that is vital for the planet. We are also focusing on using water and other resources more efficiently across all our activities, reusing as much of them as we can. We are reducing waste from our operations and increasing recycling of plastics. We are helping to improve air quality by reducing emissions from our operations and providing cleaner ways to power transport and industry. Working with our partners and suppliers and developing new collaborations is key. We will join with others across industry, governments, our customers and supply chains to protect nature. We have set environmental ambitions for 2030 and later, as well as shorter-term goals. We will continue to look for opportunities to go further and will report our progress in a transparent way. How Shell is respecting nature By 2030, we will increase the amount of recycled plastic in our packaging to 30% and ensure that the packaging we use for our products is reusable or recyclable. We will reduce the amount of fresh water consumed in our facilities, starting by reducing fresh-water consumption by 15% by 2025 compared with 2018 levels in areas where there is high pressure on fresh-water resources. We are aiming for zero waste by increasing reuse and recycling in our business and supply chains. We will demonstrate an overall positive impact on biodiversity from our new projects in areas rich in biodiversity, called critical habitats. This will include investing in conservation and taking steps to safeguard and, where possible, enhance local environments. Generating shareholder value Achieving net-zero emissions Powering lives Our core values and focus on safety Respecting nature (Our enviromental framework) Our climate target Our core values Powering Progress is underpinned by our core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people and our relentless focus on safety. The Shell General Business Principles, Code of Conduct and Ethics and Compliance Manual help everyone at Shell act in line with these values and comply with relevant laws and regulations. We have introduced a new decision-making framework to ensure that we continue to make ethical decisions in line with our Code of Conduct. We do business in a clear, open way, and we promote transparency where possible throughout our industry. Keeping employees, contractors and local communities safe is our top priority. We aim to do no harm to people and to have no leaks across our operations. Generating shareholder value Achieving net-zero emissions Powering lives Respecting nature Our values Transparency Safety Who we areWe aim to meet the energy needs of society in ways that are economically, socially and environmentally viable, now and in the future. Learn about our business and people, which grew from a small shop in London nearly 200 years ago to become a major energy company. Shell is one of India's most diversified international energy companies, with over 10,000 employees and a presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in Research & Development, digitisation, and business operations. With over 350 retail stations across eight states, Shell India is expanding its fuel station network and launched Shell Recharge, its EV charging service, in September 2022, which is rapidly growing in the EV infrastructure space. Shell Lubricants serves over 50,000 consumers through a network of more than 200 B2C and B2B distributors and operates an end-to-end value chain that spans conceptualization and development, production at a world-class blending plant, and distribution through a network of four regional distribution centres and eight warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira, Surat. In addition, Shell India has also established an LNG truck-loading unit to supply natural gas to customers across the country. With a focus on digitisation and sustainable solutions, Shell is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovation. Its initiatives include Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon, investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar, and the acquisition of renewables asset developers Solenergi Power Private Limited and the Sprng Energy group of companies. Shell also remains committed to positively contributing to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy, Drive Safe, and Road Safety across India. Visit our website, www.shell.in, and follow us on @shell_India, LinkedIn, Facebook and Instagram to know how we are redefining the energy space. Shell worldwide Royal Dutch Shell was formed in 1907, although our history dates back to the early 19th century, to a small shop in London where the Samuel family sold sea shells. Today, Shell is one of the world’s major energy companies, employing an average of 93,000 people and operating in more than 70 countries. Our headquarters are in The Hague, the Netherlands, and our Chief Executive Officer is Ben van Beurden. The parent company of the Shell group is Royal Dutch Shell plc, which is incorporated in England and Wales. Our strategy seeks to reinforce our position as a leader in the oil and gas industry, while helping to meet global energy demand in a responsible way. Safety and environmental and social responsibility are at the heart of our activities. Read about our history from 1833 to the present Our purpose We believe that oil and gas will remain a vital part of the global energy mix for many decades to come. Our role is to ensure that we extract and deliver these energy resources profitably and in environmentally and socially responsible ways. We aim to work closely with our customers, our partners and policymakers to advance a more efficient and sustainable use of energy and natural resources. Our people Our people work together on some of the most innovative and exciting energy projects in the world. A diverse workforce and an inclusive work environment are vital to our success, leading to greater innovation and better solutions. Find out about diversity and inclusion at Shell Professional training, development programmes and ongoing support mean that our people are given every opportunity to reach their potential. And our leadership programmes enable talented individuals to become the energy industry leaders of tomorrow. Learn more about careers with Shell Shell at a glance in 2016 70+ countries we operate in 92,000 employees on average 57.1 million tonnes of LNG sold during the year 22 refineries we have interests in 3.7 million barrels of oil equivalent we produce per day Download our projects brochure “Create” Financial performance in 2016 Revenue: $233.6 billion Income: $4.8 billion Capital investment: $79.9 billion (including acquisition of BG Group plc) Investment in research and development: $1.0 billion Fast facts for sustainable development in 2016 $102 million spent on voluntary social investment worldwide. Of this: around $44 million spent on local programmes for community development, disaster relief, education, health and biodiversity; and around $58 million spent on our global themes - energy access, boosting local skills and enterprise, and STEM education. We estimate that almost $96 million of our total spend in 2016 was in countries that are part of the United Nations Development Programme Human Development Index 2015, that is, those defined as having a gross domestic product of less than $15,000 a year per person. In 2016, Shell spent $45 billion on goods and services from 43,000 suppliers globally. What we do Shell is an integrated energy company that aims to meet the world’s demand for energy in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. Projects and sites Read out about our projects and sites in India. The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Careers at Shell Discover the impact you could make with a career at Shell. Sustainability Sustainability at Shell is about delivering energy in a responsible way to meet the world’s growing needs. Your Trusted Energy Partner The energy market is transitioning, driven by growing energy demand and an urgent need to curb emissions. Attitudes are changing and customer needs are quickly evolving. As a leading global provider of energy products and services, Shell Energy offers a better way to power your business. Leveraging our strong trading capability and deep global market understanding, we offer reliable, integrated and innovative energy solutions. About Us Shell Energy India is a Shell venture, serving Indian customers through a fully-owned and integrated value chain – competitive supply from global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. Products & Services Shell Energy India offers flexible deal structures, risk management capabilities and reliable Gas and LNG supplies. Why chose SEI? Reap the rewards of an integrated energy company and experience energy that’s better for business. We offer the cost-effective energy solutions you need to improve efficiency, meet clean energy targets, and respond to changing demands. LNG Terminal Shell Energy India (SEI) owns and operates a 5 mtpa LNG receiving, storage and regasification terminal at Hazira, Gujarat. Select your local Shell Energy website Projects and sitesShell employs 4000 people in India. Read about our projects and sites around the country. Upstream activities Hazira LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal in Gujarat with capacity of 5 mtpa Proposed FSRU project at Kakinada with APGDC, Engie and Shell as partners Post combination with BG, Shell acquires stake in PMT-JV between BG (30%), ONGC(40%) and Reliance (30%) MGL – JV between BG (49.75%), GAIL (49.75%) and Govt. of Maharashtra MGL- Post IPO equity interest to reduce to 32.5% Downstream activities With a network of about 250 distributors and a lubricant oil blending plant at Taloja, Shell Lubricants India sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications such as consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Only international company to be granted approval to retail fuel in India till date; license of 2000 retail outlet; currently operations ~80 Aviation joint venture between Shell and MRPL currently serving 10 airports Other activities Third Shell Global Centre for Innovation & Technology in Bangalore, the other two being in Houston and Amsterdam. Financial Business Operations in Chennai with 2000+ staff An in-house global IT centre setup in Bangalore, which is expected to provide employment opportunities to several thousand IT professionals by 2020 Who we are Learn about our business and people, and how we grew from a small shop in London nearly 200 years ago. What we do Shell is an integrated energy company that aims to meet the world’s demand for energy in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. The Shell brandFor more than 100 years the word Shell, our pecten emblem and distinctive red and yellow colours have visualised the Shell brand and promoted our values and the quality of our products and services all over the world. The word Shell first appeared in 1891, as the trademark for kerosene shipped to the Far East by Marcus Samuel and Company. This small London business dealt originally in antiques, curios and oriental seashells. These became so popular – the Victorians used them to decorate trinket boxes in particular – that soon they formed the basis of the company’s profitable import and export trade with the Far East. The word was elevated to corporate status in 1897, when Samuel formed the Shell Transport and Trading Company. The first logo in 1901 was a mussel shell, but by 1904 a scallop shell or pecten emblem had been introduced to give a visual representation of the corporate and brand name. When the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and Shell Transport and Trading merged in 1907, the latter’s brand name and symbol (Shell and the pecten) became the short-form name and emblem of the new Royal Dutch Shell Group. And so it has remained ever since. The form of the Shell emblem has changed gradually over the years in line with trends in graphic design. The current emblem was introduced in 1971. Thirty years on it stands the test of time as one of the world’s most recognised symbols. Find out about our history in India The Sound of Shell Since the early 20th century Shell has used music in visual and audio communications, including collaborations with singers Bing Crosby and Sammy Davis Jr. Working with British film and TV soundtrack composer Tom Howe, in 2015 we introduced the “Sound of Shell”, a sonic signature that captures the values and energy of the Shell brand as a modern company innovating to help build a sustainable energy future. The result is a three-minute orchestral composition and a suite of more than 50 variations in different musical genres and styles. Each is based on a central melody that can be expressed in many styles, from hard-hitting electric guitars to Thai and Turkish adaptations. The shortest expression is a two-second mnemonic – or key melody – that, for example, accompanies the Pecten logo at the end of a Shell film. In time, we would like it to be instantly recognisable, like the Pecten itself. Listen to the 2-second mnemonic Watch a short film about the making of the Sound of Shell The #makethefuture initiative With our #makethefuture initiative we ask people around the world a bold question: what if your ideas could help answer the world’s energy challenges? The goal of the initiative is to unlock people’s scientific ingenuity and creative spirit and inspire them to join our innovation-focused programmes – for example, Shell Ideas360 and Shell Eco-marathon for students, Shell LiveWIRE for young entrepreneurs, and Shell GameChanger for experienced innovators. Now, more than ever, the world needs more scientists, technologists, engineers and mathematicians to face the world’s energy challenges. Progress powered by footsteps The #makethefuture initiative is focused on innovations that drive human progress. The perfect example is Laurence Kemball-Cook, who brought a powerful idea to the Shell LiveWIRE programme: to refurbish a run-down community football pitch in Morro da Mineira, a favela in Rio de Janeiro. Beneath the surface we laid around 200 kinetic tiles, developed by a Laurence. These tiles capture energy generated by players’ movement and combined with energy from solar panels, the locals now have a partially-renewable source of electricity that helps power their pitch’s floodlights. Find out more about the #makethefuture initiative Who we are Learn about our business and people, and how we grew from a small shop in London nearly 200 years ago. What we do Shell is an integrated energy company that aims to meet the world’s demand for energy in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. The energy future We are using our know-how, technology and innovation to deliver more and cleaner energy for the world's growing population. Make the Future #MakeTheFuture showcases the on-going actions Shell is taking to help create this more sustainable energy-rich, lower carbon future. Contact usAt Shell, we are committed to improve our services to you, to ensure you receive the best customer service and as part of our ongoing improvement program to deliver best in market customer experience. Customer Support Department (for all enquiries) We would like to inform you that our working hours are changing to 08:30 hrs till 17:30 hrs effective 1st January 2018 and we support Monday to Saturday excluding Sundays and National Holidays.. However, please note that there are no changes in our contact details, your queries will be answered as received to the below contact details. For general and New Business related enquiries: Email: generalpublicenquiries-in@shell.com Tel: 044-3099 1103, 044-4344 2650 Shell Companies in India Level 9A, Two Horizon Centre Golf Course Road, DLF Phase V Sector - 43 Gurgaon - 122002 Haryana Tel.: +91 124 6661500 Shell India Markets Private Limited Gurgaon Office: Level 9A, Two Horizon Centre Golf Course Road, DLF Phase V Sector - 43 Gurgaon - 122002 Haryana Tel.: +91 124 6271500 Fax.: +91 124 6271600 Mumbai Office: Trent House, First Floor, G Block, Plot No C-60, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra East, Mumbai – 400051 Tel : +91 22 - 6716 3888 Fax no. : + 91 22 67163847 Shell India Markets Private Limited New Technology Centre Bangalore (Plot No - 7, Bangalore Hardware Park, Shell Technology Centre, Devanahalli Industrial Park, Mahadeva Kodigehalli, Bengaluru - 562 149 Shell India Markets Private Limited New Technology Centre Bangalore (Plot No - 7, Bangalore Hardware Park, Shell Technology Centre, Devanahalli Industrial Park, Mahadeva Kodigehalli, Bengaluru - 562 149 Shell India Markets Private Limited Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia Business Park, No. 143, Dr. M.G.R Road, Kandanchavady, Perungudi, Chennai - 600 096 Tel : +91 44 4345 0000 Fax : +91 44 4345 1516 Shell Energy India Private Limited Office No. 2008, The Address, Westgate - D Block Nr. YMCA Club, S. G. Highway, Makarba Ahmedabad, Gujarat India - 380051 Tel. +91 79 47554100 Fax. +91 79 47554101 Shell Business Operations Bangalore Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd RMZ Ecoworld Campus 4A & 4B, Sarjapur Marathahalli, Outer Ring Road Bangalore 560 103 Karnataka - India Tel : +91 80 4677 3333 Integrated Gas Ventures BG Exploration and Production India Limited BG House, Lake Boulevard Road, Hiranandani Gardens, Powai Mumbai - 400076 Who we are Learn about our business and people, and how we grew from a small shop in London nearly 200 years ago. What we do Shell is an integrated energy company that aims to meet the world’s demand for energy in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. Reports and publicationsAnnual Report, Sustainability Report and Investors' Handbook are available for online reading and as PDF download. You can also download our local reports and publications. Annual reports and publications The Annual Report and Form 20-F, Sustainability report and the Investors’ Handbook are available on our report website. Reporting We have voluntarily reported – openly and honestly - on our environmental and social performance since 1997. Who we are Learn about our business and people, and how we grew from a small shop in London nearly 200 years ago. What we do Shell is an integrated energy company that aims to meet the world’s demand for energy in economically, environmentally and socially responsible ways. InvestorWelcome to the Shareholders' information page. Here you can view the annual return in Form MGT-7 and the Notice of Annual General Meeting (held through electronic means) as per the provisions under the Companies Act, 2013. Annual return in Form MGT-7 as per the provisions under the Companies Act, 2013. Annual Return for FY 2021-22. Shell India Markets Private Limited Shell Pahal Social Welfare Association Hazira Port Private Limited (HPPL) Shell Energy India Private Limited (SEIPL) Shell Energy Marketing and Trading India Private Limited (SEMTIPL) In order to view the Annual Return, users are requested to download and open the file in the Adobe Acrobat Reader (Version 11 or later) Notice of Annual General Meeting for FY 2021-22 Shell Energy Marketing and Trading India Private Limited Careers at Shell WHY CHOOSE SHELL? Information Technology Our Information Technology specialists are fundamental to the success of Shell, helping to build and implement IT solutions right across our business. Technology to tackle the energy challenge You can be a part of the future of energy. At Shell, you power your progress as we tackle the energy challenge together. Shell Graduate Programme Discover the advantages of the Shell Graduate Programme. Careers in high performance computing Welcome to the Digital & Scientific High Performance Computing team, which is part of the overall Shell's Projects & Technology, where we leverage the latest technologies and innovations to solve complex problems in the energy industry. Information Data & Analytics Join the Information Data & Analytics professionals at Shell who deliver IT technology solutions across the full spectrum of unstructured to structured data. Software Engineering Be a part of Shell's software engineers to collaborate and develop scalable solutions that accelerate business outcomes and open new possibilities. The software engineers at Shell apply excellent engineering skills within a vibrant global community of natural teams who are passionate about innovation and investing in people. Shell Business Operations Bangalore Shell Business Operations Bangalore is a 100% Shell owned operation which will provide IT services to all of Shell’s businesses as well as associated support functions. Shell Business Operations Chennai SBO-Chennai careers are focused on Finance, Finance Operations, Customer Service and Offer to Cash (OTC) functions. Strong rewards and benefits packages Shell offers compensation and benefits packages considered to be among the best in the world. Check the Shell website in your country for specific rewards and benefits packages we offer. Many locations offer subsidised services such as sports facilities, medical/dental care and car parking. In many countries, you’ll have the chance to participate in a Shell Share programme, enabling you to purchase shares of company stock at a lower price. Work-life balance We have flexible working arrangements and paid time off that help you achieve a fulfilling work-life balance. For example, we are the first international oil and gas company to offer global minimum maternity leave. Just one of the many flexible working policies we have in place to ensure you have more time to do the things you love. Rewarding your performance On top of a competitive starter salary, you’ll be recognised and rewarded through performance related pay. The extent of the pay will depend on your merit, role, location, and Shell’s business performance. Manage your application Discover the impact you can make at Shell. Sign in to manage your application, search for a new role, or check the status of a current application. Contact us If you need assistance and information relating to your application or the recruitment process you can contact us. Recruitment scams This is an important notice on fraudulent communications that have been made to members of the public. Careers FAQs Explore our Frequently Asked Questions and find the answers you’re looking for. Experienced ProfessionalsAs an experienced professional at Shell you will constantly enhance your career and continue on your path to reaching your full potential. Technical careers Human solutions to global challenges: find out how you can develop your career in our technical teams. Non-technical careers Looking for a career with real impact? Discover how you could excel in our non-technical teams. Application process for professionals Discover the vacancy that suits your experience and qualifications and apply online. Manage your application Sign in to manage your application, search for a new role or check the status of a current application. Why choose Shell? Join a collaborative, pioneering team that is committed to helping develop the energy resources needed to power progress. Maritime Join our pioneering Maritime colleagues and together you’ll make an impact as we tackle the world’s energy demands. Job search for professionalsIf you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Explore career opportunities below. Application process for professionals Discover the vacancy that suits your experience and qualifications and apply online. Why choose Shell? Join a collaborative, pioneering team that is committed to helping develop the energy resources needed to power progress. Technical careersAt Shell, we believe in human solutions to global challenges. Discover what you can achieve in a creative and collaborative culture of innovation.Discipline engineeringAs one of the most wide ranging areas within Shell, Engineering offers incredible opportunities to impact nearly every aspect of our business. Join our creative and collaborative environment and discover how far your ideas can travel. Shell Discipline Engineering includes some of the most rewarding roles in the energy industry. Discover why an engineering career at Shell will ensure a varied and globally connected career. Whether at our refineries, gas facilities or offshore production units, setting or redefining engineering and technology standards, or working on our groundbreaking projects, you can be sure of an active, challenging and rewarding career. You will be on the frontline of innovation, developing new ways to meet a growing energy demand. An Engineering job at Shell is not only a chance to expand your career horizons, but an opportunity for you to make a significant impact on the future of the energy industry. Not only are we looking for creative thinkers and individuals passionate about building a secure global energy future, but also proactive people with technical expertise and practical experience. Our working environment is built on a culture of continuous learning and ensures that you are constantly developing your expertise and abilities as part of a supportive, integrated team. You could even have the chance to work in locations across the world with some of the industry’s leading experts. GeoscienceShell Geoscience is searching for explorers and pioneers with a broad scientific outlook to help us meet the energy demands of a growing global population. Shell Geoscience is central to our aims of satisfying the world’s energy needs. Even in the context of a shifting energy balance towards more renewable energy resources, fossil hydrocarbons will remain important for decades to come. However, the process of finding and producing oil and gas supplies is becoming more complex, meaning Shell Geoscience requires the most innovative and creative individuals to help power it’s progress. Shell Geoscientists work in collaborative, integrated teams using a variety of cutting-edge technologies. Making informed decisions that impact Exploration, Development and Production, Shell Geoscientists contribute to the continued success of the Upstream business over its full lifecycle. As a Geoscientist at Shell you will benefit from an industry-leading training programme, unique self-guided career development and invaluable on-the-job experience. With the possibility of working alongside Shell’s foremost scientists on groundbreaking projects worldwide, a job in Geoscience will help impact how we tackle the world’s energy challenges. The Sivas Basin, Central Turkey Shell Geoscientists use a variety of technologies and methodologies to explore for hydrocarbons in regions such as the Sivas Basin – a relatively unexplored area in central Turkey. Shell Geoscientists used remote sensing techniques to carry out a detailed geological mapping over the Sivas licence blocks in Turkey. Image processing methods such as principal component analysis and classification methods were applied to highlight lithological features of the basin. Additionally, a Digital Elevation Model (DEM) analysis was carried out to expose the basin’s structural features. The resulting geological map derived from satellite imagery proved to be an invaluable dataset supporting seismic gravity-magnetics interpretation. It represents a real improvement in geological mapping that allows for better-informed business decisions. Information technologyOur Information Technology specialists help build and implement IT solutions for a range of business functions, and are fundamental to the success of Shell. Information Technology jobs at Shell place you at the forefront of IT innovation. Our versatile team of technicians provides critical support for cutting-edge IT solutions that drive growth, streamline performance and promote efficiency. In an IT career at Shell you will be working alongside some of the leading names in the industry, such as Microsoft, SAP and IBM. You will need commercial acumen, proven technology skills and the ability to spot and implement solutions to practical problems. In return you will be offered technical, commercial and leadership training as well as overall career development support. Working on pioneering technology projects, you will be challenged daily with tasks that go beyond basic IT functions. The challenge facing the energy industry in the coming decades is considerable and IT specialists are vital to how we deliver high-quality and cost-effective global solutions along the entire value chain. IT is essential to the success of Shell. In fact, whenever we talk about big successes in Shell – exploration successes or big increases in production – they are all supported by state-of-the-art software, developed and maintained by the best minds in IT. Process engineeringProcess Engineering at Shell is critical to the development, production and processing of our commercial products. Process Engineers at Shell are pushing boundaries at the forefront of energy innovation. The world’s energy challenges are becoming more complex by the day, which is why we’re in search of talented Process Engineers who share our passion for innovative thinking, cutting-edge technology and a commitment to risk management. Shell’s Process Engineering community consists of some 2,400 people located around the globe across four business areas: Exploration & Production Gas Refining Chemicals Process Engineering’s influence is felt across Shell’s businesses, from design and operations to research, supply and distribution, and technical safety. A job as part of this highly experienced team will introduce you to a wealth of daily challenges that may include contributing to long-term project development, optimising chemical processes, or providing technical support to oil and gas production facilities, refineries and chemical plants – both onshore and offshore. Whatever challenges you take on, we can offer you a career at the forefront of innovation, with outstanding professional development and opportunities for your work to make a lasting impact on some of the most demanding and exciting energy projects in the world. Find out about the benefits of working at Shell. Project engineeringOur pioneering team of Project Engineers and Project Managers collaborate to deliver hard-to-reach oil and gas reserves across the globe. Project Engineers at Shell work on some of the energy industry’s most pioneering projects. Shell’s Project Engineers collaborate to help shape the future of the energy industry , which is why we are proud to retain the highest level of talent. The scale and ambition of Shell’s global engineering projects – from gas-to-liquid plants and floating liquefied natural gas projects, to offshore oil drilling and production platforms – simply do not exist anywhere else in the industry. Global expertise Shell’s Project Engineers innovate at every phase of their careers, across countries, with colleagues from many cultures and on pioneering, multi-billion-dollar projects. From day one, your skills will form an important part of our continued success. We recruit the very best which is why you will have early accountability and responsibility for your projects. Meanwhile you’ll have access to the tools and processes for safe and consistent delivery of top quartile projects, from the Assess to the Operate phase, working with our Integrated Project Management System (iPMS). Who are we looking for? We seek ambitious and confident Project Engineers and Project Managers who want to learn from, and work alongside, leading industry professionals. We want to hear from highly technical candidates with remarkable professional experience who value safety above all else, have an international mind-set, and wish to connect and build relationships with different cultures. We develop and train Project Engineers and Project Managers of all levels to reach their full potential at the externally certified Shell Project Academy, in line with our world-renowned competency programme. Forefront of innovation Our Project Engineers are at the cutting edge of the industry. Take three of our largest projects, Pearl GTL, Prelude FLNG and Perdido, all of which truly break new ground. Pearl GTL in Qatar, for example, is the world’s largest plant converting natural gas into kerosene, lubricants and cleaner-burning fuels. Perdido is the deepest offshore oil drilling and production platform in the world, moored in 2,450 metres of water in the Gulf of Mexico. Prelude, meanwhile, will be the world’s first floating liquid natural gas project. Each is at the forefront of their respective technologies and require innovations beyond anything ever seen before in the industry. Our Project Engineers and Project Managers lead these developments and the thousands of skilled engineers who staff them to ensure they are run safely and efficiently. Each project carves a path for our future. A Project Engineering career at Shell is exciting, innovative, rewarding, and will give you the chance to make an impact on the energy industry. Non-technical careersAre you curious, passionate and adventurous? Are you a pioneer? If so, let your remarkable talents make an impact with Shell. Contracting and Procurement Finance Sales and marketing Human resources Legal Maritime Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Technical careers Human solutions to global challenges: find out how you can develop your career in our technical teams. Contracting and ProcurementContracting and Procurement offers a wealth of opportunities in Shell’s Upstream and Downstream businesses, building relationships with suppliers and supporting the global delivery of services. Contracting and Procurement at Shell offers a variety of exciting career opportunities. A Contracting and Procurement role at Shell could see you assigned to support some of our groundbreaking exploration projects, while learning on the job and, collaborating with a team of highly skilled and experienced professionals delivering strategic business plans. A career in Contracting and Procurement at Shell is not only an excellent opportunity for ambitious individuals to progress in one of the industry’s most innovative companies, it's also a chance to continue developing yourself as a professional and work with cutting-edge procurement tools and systems. Casting its influence on many areas of Shell’s business operations, C&P requires remarkable, creative candidates who can build and maintain relationships, provide support solutions to our businesses, and have the drive to effectively negotiate for a lower cost of supply while maintaining quality and safety standards. As many of our Contracting and Procurement roles involve working with cross-functional teams, your ability to work in an end-to-end environment will be beneficial. You will be part of a mentorship programme focused on nurturing your professional and personal development and work in an environment that supports and promotes diversity, collaboration and social responsibility. Meet the manager As Contracting and Procurement Manager for Shell Exploration and Production, Joseph Yuen has a varied and busy role. “I am accountable to deliver and execute the C&P strategy and all Contracting and Procurement activities in accordance with global policies, practices and project requirements associated with Deepwater, Midstream and Downstream,” he says. Joseph also plays a key role in forming groundbreaking projects, adding: “It is very exciting to be making a noticeable impact on projects in the early stages of development.” For Joseph it's this constant stimulation, and the fact that the working environment at Shell is one that promotes responsibility, that makes his role so rewarding: “People at Shell are really interested in balancing the need to fulfil their business objectives in an environmental, social and economically-focused manner. People feel passionately about not only serving Shell but our community too.” FinanceShell is searching for innovators who thrive in a commercially-focused setting to fill a number of different roles within our Finance business. Shell’s Finance team performs critical commercial tasks that support our core operations. Shell Finance consistently delivers effective and innovative financial support to our Retail, Manufacturing and Production arms, and provides a range of professional services, advice and products to Shell companies across the globe. Covering everything from Management and Financial Accounting, Consultancy and Business Controls to Mergers & Acquisitions, Insurance and Treasury options, Shell Finance offers a diverse environment for ambitious individuals looking to build a rewarding and exciting career in the energy industry. Responsibilities in Shell Finance include providing independent support to business decision-making, ensuring compliance with the complex regulations and driving operational efficiency through global standards. You may also be expected to provide high quality financial advice in a range of disciplines, from Mergers & Acquisitions to Internal Audit. A wide variety of growth and leadership opportunities are available to enhance your career progression. These will provide a platform on which to improve your commercial acumen and team skills while working with, and learning from, industry-leading professionals. From your first day you will be asked to apply innovative problem-solving skills and lateral thinking to issues affecting the global energy industry. Human resourcesHuman Resources careers at Shell provide a stimulating work environment suited to people-oriented individuals. Covering a broad spectrum of specialties, HR offers a vast range of job opportunities. Shell Human Resources is pivotal in how we optimise our business operations Human Resources at Shell is a diverse discipline - providing support to change management; defining and delivering team development programmes; leading projects in staff planning; and promoting diversity and inclusiveness throughout the wider Shell community. HR offers the chance to gain international exposure and begin a rewarding career in the energy industry. While learning the processes and systems of our business, you’ll benefit from continuous on-the-job training and access to a diverse network of professionals. You will ideally have an instinct for boundary pushing thinking and dealing with complex business-related issues. You’ll gain exposure to real projects that influence the way Shell’s HR team, and the company overall, consistently delivers professional excellence worldwide. Meet the manager For Tessa de Mönnink-van Westrenen, Human Resources Manager for Retail Americas and Global Retail Marketing, the fact that her career at Shell has been both varied and international is what makes it such a rewarding job. “I’ve had a very varied career path,” she says. “That attracts me. I want to stay interested.” One of Tessa’s proudest moments came while serving as Global Recruitment Manager in Malaysia, when she introduced a new process of recruitment that sourced candidates globally, rather than having each country select candidates from only the local talent pool. “That makes me feel really good,” she says, “Because I could influence the global agenda.” This open environment, which gives employees a ‘seat at the table’ with senior executives and management, is something that Tessa says is particularly important to the success of Shell and its employees. “You have to forge your own destiny.” LegalShell has one of the best corporate legal departments in the world, spanning a multitude of disciplines and offering exciting career opportunities. Careers in Shell Legal are some of the most rewarding in the corporate space. Shell Legal is a large, collaborative team of specialists sometimes taking on high-profile work connecting Shell with its customers and contractors, while protecting the reputation and integrity of its brand. Shell lawyers perform to the highest abilities within a supportive work environment that offers a range of opportunities to develop from junior to senior level. Lawyers at Shell provide the essential advice and support that helps keep the company at the forefront of the industry. The constantly evolving nature of Shell Legal means we seek ambitious candidates ready to step up a gear in the corporate space, building honest promotion of the company and protecting shareholder interests. As well as a naturally curious mind and a desire to make a lasting impact with your work, you’ll need strong influencing and negotiation skills to work alongside internal and external stakeholders from diverse cultural backgrounds. Read about Diversity and Inclusion at Shell. Litigation Shell’s litigation team began operations in May 2012, creating one ultra-dynamic in-house team – a global litigation syndicate. Litigation lawyers at Shell support the Upstream and Downstream businesses, so there is an enormous variety to the work. Our litigation lawyers combine with business lawyers in-house to represent a considerable force at the forefront of the global energy debate. MaritimeShell Maritime plays a pivotal role in how we meet global energy demands, and offers exciting career opportunities to the best and brightest maritime professionals. Join Shell Maritime and you could make an impact on the future world’s energy demands Maritime jobs with Shell involve working with pioneering technology, maintaining high safety standards and building and managing relationships with contractors around the world. We are looking for high-performing maritime professionals who can bring their expertise and industry know-how to help Shell remain one of the world’s most competitive companies in the energy industry. Whether in Fleet Management, Maritime Standards and Assurance, Marine Technical roles or HSSE, there are a number of management and operational opportunities worldwide that can further develop and enhance your marine expertise. Fleet Officer roles at Shell range from cadets, starting their career with us on one of our vessels and working their way up through the ranks, to more experienced officers. Experienced officers As part of our global team of officers, you will share our core values: to deliver flawless execution in safety, reliability and cost management to our customers around the globe. As part of Shell Maritime, you will be given ample opportunity to propel your career within the Shell Fleet team. Cadets Shell is committed to recognising and developing your expertise in positions both at sea and onshore. Proactive cadets will be given career progression opportunities and the chance to develop experience while seeing the impact of your work on our growing fleet of oil and LNG carriers. The world’s first 100% LNG-powered barge In a world-first, Shell launched a tank barge powered solely by LNG in March 2013. The LNG-powered barge, Greenstream, was built and designed at Peters Shipyards in the Netherlands and includes a number of innovative safety and efficiency features. For example, Greenstream has four smaller, gas-burning engines rather than one large engine as in traditional barges. This means that power can be varied and so gives the potential for fuel savings. In addition, these smaller engines operate at a lower frequency than traditional barges, reducing vibration and noise levels. This new LNG-powered barge will operate in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland. Sales and marketingSales and Marketing careers are crucial to delivering Shell products and services to customers across the globe. Sales and Marketing is Shell’s driving force for global commercial success. A Sales and Marketing job at Shell revolves around customer experience and is essential in creating value across the entire customer chain. We are looking for skilled salespeople and career marketers that can deliver value and drive customer satisfaction globally. Driving profitable growth by connecting with customers and understanding their needs is key to Sales and Marketing at Shell, whether our customers are high street consumers, business partners, governments or NGOs. That is why we want to find remarkable Sales and Marketing professionals brimming with personality and corporate experience, who are passionate about enhancing the customer experience and can build trusting relationships. We are looking for individuals to be a part of a customer-focused organisation that strives to make a positive impact on the industry. Meet the manager, Juan Ignacio Elias, Global Sales Excellence Lead for Shell Global Commercial Juan says the key differentiators between Shell and other international oil companies are in the value of the Shell brand, its global development opportunities and its commitment to the customer. “I’ve held several local, regional and global roles in Sales and Marketing,” he says “I particularly enjoyed accessing such diverse scope, and working in a global company with strong core values: honesty, integrity and respect for people. Juan, who has worked for Shell for more than a decade now, explains how Shell champions effective commercial teams in order to provide the best customer experience possible. “Working for Shell in any commercial role will expose you to working with a very professional and diverse team using the latest techniques and tools, while maintaining a good work-life balance.” Voice of the Customer and Commercial Excellence Shell’s commitment to being customer-focused and maximising customer value is best encapsulated by the Voice of the Customer campaign and the internal Commercial Excellence programme. Launched in 2012 in Shell service stations across the UK and rolled out across Shell-branded outlets around the world in 2013, the Voice of the Customer campaign allows us to discover in real time what customers think about their experience during their visit to Shell. This is now beginning to shape how Shell service stations operate, and is creating the vital opportunity for us to hold an international dialogue with our customers. The Commercial Excellence programme seeks to identify and develop the best sales practices for our commercial teams. Helping our sales professionals coordinate and align their work so that they can better understand and fulfill our customers’ needs, it is an important tool in ensuring we have in place the right set of behaviours, processes and tools for our people. A career in Sales and Marketing at Shell will immerse you in the latest commercial management practices and offer you the opportunity to make an impact in our highly-respected sales business. Application process for professionalsBe inspired; search for a vacancy and apply online. You could then be invited for a telephone interview followed by an assessment. Explore our current vacancies. If you discover the right job for you, click the “Send your application online” button. If you don’t find a suitable vacancy, you can sign up to create a personal profile. You can also join our Shell Talent Community to receive updates on career opportunities, major projects and events in your field. Your details will also be available to our recruiters who may get in touch when they have a suitable vacancy. If you’ve previously applied for a role with Shell, you can go straight to your personal profile and submit another application for a new role. If you’ve not been in touch, please register and create a profile. You can then submit your application. You should get a received confirmation from our side soon. You can check the status of your application by logging on to Candidate Home. If your application is successful, in most instances we arrange for a telephone interview to take place within two weeks. This usually lasts between 45 minutes and an hour. Let your curious side show and ask us your questions to discover more about the role and what it’s like working at Shell. If your interview is successful, we will invite you for an assessment within a period of around three weeks. It will either be a behaviour-based structured interview, a professional interview or a presentation assessing your competencies. In some instances it will include a scenario-based exercise. This should all last around four hours. You will have the opportunity to ask us any further questions about things such as rewards and benefits. We will try to notify you of the outcome within a few days. Please note that timings are indicative. A high volume of applications can result in the process taking a little longer. Neither Shell, nor any organisation that recruits on our behalf, asks for money or payments from applicants at any point in the application process. Everyone who is successful in gaining an offer of employment from Shell, either directly or indirectly, is required to go through a formal recruitment process. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Technical careers Human solutions to global challenges: find out how you can develop your career in our technical teams. Manage your applicationSign in to access your personal application area. Explore new job opportunities, check the status of current applications and update your CV. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Technical careers Human solutions to global challenges: find out how you can develop your career in our technical teams. Why choose Shell?There has never been a more exciting time to work in the energy industry, or at Shell. Learn about the challenges we face and the impacts you can make. Discover your potential with Shell Are you curious, passionate and adventurous? Are you a pioneer? If so, let your remarkable talents make an impact with Shell. You’ll be empowered to carve out your own career path and discover your true potential. You’ll get the opportunity to learn and grow with a diverse group of people. We encourage collaboration and believe that by surrounding you with a great team your creativity will flourish and inspire great ideas. Constant innovation We have a track record of world-firsts, from Pearl GTL, the world’s largest gas-to-liquids plant, to Prelude FLNG, the world’s first floating liquefied natural gas platform. These aren’t just engineering achievements. They are products of an organisation that genuinely prizes progress, where you will be constantly encouraged to explore new ways of thinking and working. This same spirit underpins our commitment to your continuous training and development, with excellent mentorship and learning opportunities available to you at every stage of your career. The value of a global brand We’re also one of the world’s best-known brands. With around 92,000 employees in more than 70 countries, we operate on a scale few can rival. You’ll have the opportunity to work with leading professionals from around the world, sharing expertise and points of view that will hugely enrich your experience. Big challenges – even bigger opportunities The scale of our challenge is enormously exciting. Global demand for energy is rapidly rising and at Shell we are committed to developing smart solutions to build a better energy future all around the world. That’s why we’re in search of remarkable people to join us. People who are curious to try new ways of working, adventurous enough to push the boundaries and who have the determination to drive ideas forward. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Application process for professionals Discover the vacancy that suits your experience and qualifications and apply online. Global Operations and MaintenanceOperations and Maintenance jobs at Shell are on the front line of Shell’s global activities and ground-breaking projects. Operations and Maintenance jobs at Shell are essential to the ongoing successes of the company. In one of our Operations and Maintenance roles you will be part of a growing team that is tasked with the safe and efficient day-to-day operation of our global projects and assets. Working in our oil refineries, our petrochemical plants, onshore and offshore production fields, and other operations, a career in Operations and Maintenance at Shell is one right at the front line of the company’s activities. We are looking for highly ambitious and safety-conscious candidates who can fill positions such as Instrumentation Technicians, Millwrights, Electricians, Welders, Mechanics, Pipefitters, and Field and Process Operators. In an Operations and Maintenance career, you will have the opportunity to progress in an environment that encourages both personal and professional development, and be part of some of the most ground-breaking projects anywhere in the industry. Students and GraduatesExplore the wide range of opportunities that Shell has to offer top students and graduates, whether you're interested in working in a technical discipline, within commercial business, or for one of our corporate functions. Shell Graduate Programme Discover the advantages of the Shell Graduate Programme. Assessed Internships Discover the exciting and diverse world of Shell. See what you could do and where you could go. Degree Matcher Are you ready to discover a career journey with Shell? Explore our degree matcher for all opportunities. Benefits of working at Shell Discover the benefits of working at Shell, from our outstanding training programmes to the multiple opportunities to network and collaborate. Tips to apply successfully Some top tips for applying to Shell. Meet our graduates Find out what life is like on the Shell Graduate Programme from current employees. Meet our interns Shell interns, working in different roles around our organisation talk about their expectations and experiences. Shell Graduate ProgrammeJoin us as a Shell graduate and you can be a part of the future of energy. Whichever part of our business you join, you will have the chance to work with experienced colleagues and share your unique perspective and fresh ideas on how to tackle energy-related challenges. That’s why we’re looking for graduates who share our purpose to power progress. Our inclusive and collaborative culture will provide you with the support you need to forge your own path and grow your skills as you work on meaningful projects with exciting responsibilities right from the start. Power your progress Online Application Before applying, make sure you are eligible to work in the country where the program is based. Use the jobs search bar and type “Shell Graduate Programme” and complete your application online – note you can save time by connecting your LinkedIn profile. The application shouldn’t take more than 5-10 minutes. You can also use our degree matcher tool to help you find the career path best suited for you and see how many opportunities are available. Keep the results in mind when you are asked in the application form what career area within Shell you are most interested in. Shell Graduate Programme interactive guide Discover more about the Shell Graduate Programme, including tips for success, in our interactive guide. Degree Matcher Are you ready to discover a career journey with Shell? Explore our degree matcher for all opportunities. Manage your application Discover the impact you can make at Shell. Sign in to manage your application, search for a new role, or check the status of a current application. Contact us If you need assistance and information relating to your application or the recruitment process you can contact us. Recruitment scams This is an important notice on fraudulent communications that have been made to members of the public. Careers FAQs Explore our Frequently Asked Questions and find the answers you’re looking for. Assessed InternshipsDiscover more about applying for an Assessed Internship, and see if a career at Shell is what you’re looking for. An Assessed Internship is an excellent way to get to know Shell from the inside and immerse yourself in the energy industry. It can also help you decide what career is right for you. You’ll have full day-to-day involvement in actual projects, selected to match your interests and abilities. You’ll join a project team and work alongside Shell employees who are all professionals in their fields. Their perspectives will contribute to your understanding of our business, its demands and rewards. A supervisor and mentor will support you directly and you’ll undertake regular assessments throughout your internship to ensure you get the most from the experience. What we look for: You’ll be evaluated on your capacity for analysis, decision-making and creating workable solutions, as well as your drive, enthusiasm, resilience and confidence. During an Assessed Internship, you’ll have a formal mid-term review with your mentor and supervisor. Following this, there will be a final review where there would be a competency based interview. You’ll also be asked to prepare a final presentation about your project. Your success in the Assessed Internship could result in you being offered a full time role. Online Application Find an Internship in your location by using the search bar then complete your application online – note you can save time by connecting your LinkedIn profile. Before applying, make sure you are eligible to work in the country where the program is based. The application shouldn’t take more than 5-10 minutes. You can also use our degree matcher tool to help you find the career path best suited for you and see how many opportunities are available. Keep the results in mind when you are asked in the application form what career area within Shell you are most interested in Shell Graduate Programme Discover the advantages of the Shell Graduate Programme. Degree Matcher Are you ready to discover a career journey with Shell? Explore our degree matcher for all opportunities. Benefits of working at ShellCombine our creative, collaborative work environment and global operations with an impressive range of benefits and joining Shell becomes an inspired career choice. Comprehensive financial rewards and benefits On top of a competitive starter salary, you’ll be recognised and rewarded through performance related pay, the extent of which will depend on your role and location. Our benefits are aligned with local market practice. Some locations offer subsidised services such as sports facilities, medical/dental care and car parking. In some countries, you’ll have the chance to participate in a Shell Share programme. Training and development To support our graduates in their ongoing development journey, Shell supplies continuous coaching and mentoring from experienced business leaders. Fundamental to your progression within the industry, you will also receive training in areas of the chosen path within the Shell Graduate Programme. Throughout the Shell Graduate Programme, regular progress checks will help us coordinate your progression by understanding the direction you wish to take your career, and your development plan will be mapped out with your individual requirements and career aspirations. The social network A broad selection of exciting and engaging social outlets are available inside the Shell Graduate Programme, and each one strengthens Shell’s commitment to embrace a vibrant global community. Groups like the Young Shell Network, Shell Sports Club, Shell Women’s Network, Shell Africa Network, Shell Disability Network and many more have all been introduced to help make your evolution from a university environment as smooth as possible. Diversity and inclusion We strive to maintain a work environment where everyone can apply and develop skills and talents consistent with our values and business objectives. This applies to every employee, regardless of location, gender, ethnicity and physical abilities. It’s important to live by our values and play an active role in communities by attracting all talents and offering opportunities to a diverse range of people. Listening to what you have to say We check with our employees to ensure that Shell is doing everything it can to be a great place to work. Senior leaders hold frequent webcasts and discussion forums to obtain feedback and ideas, reflecting the fact that Shell is genuinely interested in hearing what its employees have to say. Shell Graduate Programme Discover the advantages of the Shell Graduate Programme. Assessed Internships Discover the exciting and diverse world of Shell. See what you could do and where you could go. Meet our graduatesWe asked Shell employees on our Graduate Programme working in different roles around the world about their experiences. Find out what they had to say. Shell Graduate Programme Discover the advantages of the Shell Graduate Programme. Assessed Internships Discover the exciting and diverse world of Shell. See what you could do and where you could go. Tips to apply successfullyLearn more about the various steps and processes involved when applying for position at Shell, and discover some top tips to help you succeed. Make the most of your CV Your CV is a key component of any application process. It is the platform to represent yourself and demonstrate your achievements. Here are a few handy tips to help you showcase yourself in the best possible way: Ensure that your CV is updated Try to restrict it to a maximum of two pages, and keep the layout simple Use headings like 'Education', 'Career History', Extra-curricular Activities, etc. to highlight different sections Don’t just make general statements about yourself – support them with evidence. For example, explain what you have done/ accomplished to illustrate the qualities you have Try to link your skills, strengths, and experience to the requirements of the role you’re applying for If you want to fill the application form faster, maintain an updated LinkledIn profile and use the tool in the form to import your online profile Personal details: Your full name, address, email address and phone number are the most important. You should ensure thatthe full name you provide in the application form is the same as that written in your other official documents. Educational details: List these in reverse-chronological order, with your most recent education first and the qualifications you obtained or will obtain when you graduate. Include the name of the institutions and the dates you were enrolled and graduate/ will graduate. You may want to list the relevant modules, the projects and dissertations you have delivered, the grades you have achieved, and professional skills you have developed. Career history and professional experience: Whether they’re paid, voluntary or shadowing, all experiences count! Present these in reverse chronological order with dates to show how long you remained in a particular role. Mention the scope of your work, what you achieved, and the skills you developed. Achievements and interests: If you have been involved in extra-curricular activities, co-curricular activities or community service, it would serve you well to include this information to showcase that you have a well-rounded profile, with a balanced approach to life. Focus on recent examples, describing your involvement, timelines, achievements, impact/ contributions and learning. Stage 1 Stage 1 of the assessment has two levels – a. Online game-based assessments, and b. On-Demand Video Interview. If you successfully clear the game-based assessments, then you would receive an invite to take the Stage 1: On-Demand Video Interview. Stage 1: On-Demand Video interview This short, self-recorded video interview is an opportunity for you to tell us about yourself. You will be asked 5 questions in all, and after each question, you will be given time to think and then to respond. From the day of receiving the invite, you will have 10 days to complete this interview. We recommend that you complete this within 5 days. Choose somewhere quiet with a good internet connection Test your webcam and microphone Make sure the area is well-lit and you can clearly be seen Preferred browsers are Chrome, Firefox or Safari (latest version). More information on the system and internet speed requirements Reflect on why you’re applying and what your standout experiences are. Be ready to talk about these in an engaging way Stage 2: Final Assessment Test your system one day before the actual interview. You may use the Virtual Interview Lobby for this purpose by entering it before your scheduled interview time. Use the Hirevue Specifications page to ensure your device meets the required specifications for this stage. Take the time to really familiarise yourself with the case study that you will be given prior to the interview (around 90-120 minutes should be sufficient). Be prepared to deliver a presentation to your assessors and answer any questions they may have. The assessment will last up to 2 hours and 30 minutes. Please plan ahead to ensure you are not disturbed and fully prepared. Don’t worry that the assessment will cover technical knowledge. Focus instead on demonstrating things such as your analytical capacity, drive and enthusiasm, decision-making, and ability to effectively communicate and collaborate at all levels. Do your homework by researching Shell and gaining familiarity with Shell operations, projects, sites and values. Learn about the capacity, achievement and relationship criteria we use to assess candidates. When you’re being interviewed, think carefully about the question. Gather your thoughts before you answer – don’t just dive in. Frame your answer to provide evidence of what the interviewer is looking for. Always focus on what you have done. Always be enthusiastic about your achievements. Keep your answers relevant to the question. Provide sufficient background information to set the scene, but be careful not to wander away from the question. Think of some questions in advance to ask at the end of the interview so you conclude on a positive and inquisitive note. We hope your application is the first success of many to come in your career. Remember that we want you to do well! Good luck. Shell Graduate Programme Discover the advantages of the Shell Graduate Programme. Assessed Internships Discover the exciting and diverse world of Shell. See what you could do and where you could go. Top tips to make your CV stand outYour written resume is often the first impression a prospective employer will get of you, your credentials, capabilities and suitability. Discover the top tips four of Shell’s HR Recruitment Managers have to share. We all know how important having a good curriculum vitae (CV) is in applying for a new job. Your written resume is often the first impression a prospective employer will get of you, your credentials, capabilities and suitability. Four HR Recruitment Managers from Shell share their advice through their top tips for CVs. Tip #1: Make sure that it looks good at a glance “You need to make an immediate impression. So I need to be interested in under a minute.” Janice Tip #2: Include the most recent and relevant experience first “Up front, put relevant work experience and the highest level of education. This should ideally include a summary of experiences and the impact made: the positive results created – commercial and otherwise.” Eveline Tip #3: Make it well rounded – show what you do outside of work too “I often also look for what the applicant does outside work: for the community for example. It gives a different perspective at the start.” Teghan Tip #4: Define the outcomes and impacts you’ve made “Avoid vague. Where possible define clearly – use metrics if you can – your achievements: the outcomes and impacts you’ve brought about in your work. I encourage candidates to make their work experiences as concrete as possible.” Eveline Tip #5: Tailor your CV to the specific job you are applying for “Be specific. Tailor your CV to the job. Be honest. If your job has been made redundant at some stage, be open about that; it too is work experience that’s relevant. Managing change is a skill worth highlighting.” Winny Tip #6: Be concise “Keep it ‘tight and bright’. Provide a succinct summary of your experience and qualifications; make this clearly and directly relevant to the role applied for. Provide also a separate short list of other experience you’ve gained, at work or otherwise, which allows us to see your other qualities. Keep them relevant to the job.” Janice Tip #7: Keep it to 2 to 3 pages “It should be about 2 to 3 pages depending on the nature of the role. Ideally keep it short and simple and well laid out so it’s easy to read. Chronological development of your career is the simplest way to present your work experience.” Teghan Tip #8: Keep it relevant “Focus on keeping your CV to the point. Only add out-of-work experience if it relates to the role applied for. Volunteer and community work helps: not so much about your hobbies or pets. I like numbers and metrics as they show you get the importance to business of measurements like this. Photos are optional – they don’t influence the calibre of your CV.” Winny Benefits of working at Shell Discover the benefits of working at Shell, from our outstanding training programmes to the multiple opportunities to network and collaborate. Meet our graduates Find out what life is like on the Shell Graduate Programme from current employees. Assessed Internships Discover the exciting and diverse world of Shell. See what you could do and where you could go. Meet our internsWe asked Shell interns, working in different roles around our organisation to talk about their expectations and experiences. This is what they had to say. Shell Graduate Programme Discover the advantages of the Shell Graduate Programme. Assessed Internships Discover the exciting and diverse world of Shell. See what you could do and where you could go. Tips to apply successfully Some top tips for applying to Shell. Degree MatcherExplore our Degree Matcher to discover which career paths you could follow with your qualifications. Or search by study area to see which career path you could join with Shell. For role availability please refer to our country specific websites. Shell Graduate Programme Be part of a graduate programme where you’ll be supported to make an impact right from the start. Shell Assessed Internship Programme Our Assessed Internships are suitable for graduates in their final two years of study. Succeed as an assessed intern and you can earn a formal graduate employment offer. Meet our graduates Find out what life is like on the Shell Graduate Programme from current employees. Life at Shell Meet, and be inspired by, our innovators, adventurers and explorers across the world. Discover their stories and get an insight into careers at Shell. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Our teams are more diverse than ever and being part of an inclusive, supportive work environment will ensure you are able to develop your career and reach your potential. Civil, Structures and Offshore EngineeringShell Civil, Structures and Offshore Engineers work to maintain the structural integrity of our assets and deliver cost effective solutions. The Shell Graduate Programme Our five-year training programme offers talented individuals a comprehensive introduction to various areas of Shell’s business and operations within the technical area of the Shell Graduate Programme. You’ll embark on a robust programme from which those keen to become pioneers in their field can establish a long and fulfilling career. Joining the Programme you will work alongside the industry’s leading technical experts and visionaries, and could gain experience as a Civil, Structures and Offshore Engineer on some of Shell’s most ground-breaking engineering projects. Within Shell you'll find a supportive work environment, working with teams across the globe. You'll be encouraged to take an innovative approach, while developing your skills and technical capabilities. Civil, Structures and Offshore Engineering As a Civil and Offshore Structures Engineer, you'll be part of a team of professionals working to maintain the structural integrity of our assets and deliver cost effective solutions. An Engineering job at Shell is a chance to progress your career with a global energy leader and an opportunity for you to make an impact on the future of the industry. As a Civil and Offshore Structures Engineer, you'll play a key role in the design of major projects and work alongside fellow problem solvers to maintain assets. Roles and responsibilities At Shell you'll have the chance to develop your technical competencies across the full range of Civil, Structures and Offshore Engineering roles, and in some cases go on short international development assignments. Roles can include: Design of major projects Operations Asset maintenance Your responsibilities could include: Delivering technical support in multi-disciplinary teams Undertaking site visits Overseeing delivery from contractors Training and development You'll follow a structured programme leading to an external professional engineering qualification e.g. CEng MICE, RINA. The Shell Graduate Programme includes on-the-job training, exposure to a wide range of technical work and face-to-face training events. You can also expect senior staff coaching within Civil, Structures and Offshore Engineering and across broader engineering disciplines. On completion of the programme there are opportunities to work in your chosen area of expertise and for a full international assignment to one of our major projects or assets as a Civil, Structures and Offshore Engineer or in a related role. Work alongside experts and visionaries Shell voted 2015 most attractive energy industry employer in APACShell’s Commitment to Diversity & InclusionAt Shell, diversity and inclusion is an important part of who we are and what we stand for and a necessity for sustainable growth. Diversity makes us stronger Discover how Shell is committed to fostering an empowering and stimulating culture where you can bring your ingenuity to work, every day. Supporting you when it counts Your work-life balance is important. Discover some of the different flexible working arrangements available. Remarkable people stories Hear from some of our employees making an impact at Shell and discover how they’re developing their careers and inspiring change in the workplace. People With Disabilities We encourage employees with disabilities to share their challenges so we can work together and support them in achieving their potential. Today’s talent is more diverse than ever before and having an inclusive work environment is key to recruiting, developing and retaining that talent. Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) plan in Shell, and the objectives that underpin it, aims to embed D&I in our culture; leverage D&I for business improvement, improve gender representation and equality; demonstrate leadership accountability and focus; and create an environment which positions us as an employer of choice. We continue to focus on increasing the representation of women and local nationals in senior positions. We recognise the importance of an inclusive work environment. When employees feel included and engaged they leverage the richness of ideas, backgrounds and perspectives to create business value. We are proud to celebrate our differences, and to foster an environment where everyone has the opportunity to reach their full potential and to make the best possible contribution to Shell’s business performance. "We need to ensure that the portfolio of our business and products is attractive to both our partners and customers. I don’t believe we can achieve this without a diverse workforce that actually reflects the diversity of our partners and customers and the countries in which we operate." Curiosity the key to success Lucia Lombardo, Senior Legal Counsel shares her story of how hard work and dedication together with Shell’s flexible working helped her career advancement Great place to grow Shell has provided Clairin with many development opportunities in a range of jobs. Learn about how Shell supports their employees in achieving their potential. Diversity makes us strongerWe are committed to fostering an empowering and stimulating culture where you can bring your ingenuity to work, every day. Measuring Diversity and Inclusion Learn more about the targeted metrics that Shell monitors to ensure that action takes place and we can monitor progress in relation to diversity and inclusion. Values supporting diversity Shell’s values of honesty, integrity and respect for people are part of everything we do. Affiliations and Associations Find out more about Shell's involvement in external forums and industry events that help to increase employees understanding of diversity issues. Measuring Diversity and InclusionWe actively seek to bring diversity into our organisation and provide an environment where diversity and inclusion can flourish. We underpin our efforts by targeted metrics that monitor progress and assure action takes place because, we have an organisational culture ‘where what gets measured gets done’. Our aim is to create an environment where people feel involved, respected and connected, where the richness of ideas, backgrounds and perspectives are harnessed to create business value. A culture of inclusion means that differences are valued and encouraged to foster creativity and innovation. We underpin our efforts by targeted metrics that monitor progress and assure action takes place because we have an organisational culture ‘where what gets measured gets done’. One set of measures that we monitor is: The representation of women in senior leadership, The diversity in the ethnicity, nationality and gender of senior leadership Our Diversity and Inclusion Indicator, which monitors the inclusion across our work environment that comes from five questions within our annual People Survey that cover areas on respect, feeling free to speak without fear of negative consequences, valued differences, discrimination and harassment free and fair leadership. Shell has moved beyond legislative compliance to actively seek to bring diversity into our organisation and provide an environment where diversity and inclusion can flourish to the benefit of all our stakeholders - employees, the company and society. Discover more about Shell's commitment and progress against these three global targets in Shell’s annual report Values supporting diversity Shell’s values of honesty, integrity and respect for people are part of everything we do. Affiliations and Associations Find out more about Shell's involvement in external forums and industry events that help to increase employees understanding of diversity issues. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Shell Talent Community Joining the Shell Talent Community is the best way for you to stay informed about global career opportunities in your area of expertise and keep up to date with relevant news and events. Values supporting diversityOur values of honesty, integrity and respect for people are part of everything we do. Our company values, together with our codes of behaviour, help create a shared language throughout Shell. Performance, growth, authenticity and collaboration are our foundations of leadership. Education and engagement A large part of Shell’s Diversity & Inclusion plan is educating and engaging employees on the need to improve gender representation and to ensure that leaders are equipped to deal with issues affecting employees in the workplace. Shell has a dedicated D&I consulting practice with focal points located in various Shell businesses and functions. We host D&I workshops and lunch and learn sessions to enable employees to increase their awareness on a range of D&I topics. There are numerous tools available to help embed inclusion in teams, and resources for line managers to support employees in feeling free to speak their minds. Discover more about the standards of performance and ethical behaviours Measuring Diversity and Inclusion Learn more about the targeted metrics that Shell monitors to ensure that action takes place and we can monitor progress in relation to diversity and inclusion. Affiliations and Associations Find out more about Shell's involvement in external forums and industry events that help to increase employees understanding of diversity issues. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Remarkable people stories Hear from some of our employees making an impact at Shell and discover how they’re developing their careers and inspiring change in the workplace. Shell Talent Community Joining the Shell Talent Community is the best way for you to stay informed about global career opportunities in your area of expertise and keep up to date with relevant news and events. Affiliations and AssociationsShell is involved in a number of external forums and industry events that encourage employees to increase their understanding of diversity issues. External D&I Resources Explore the external diversity and inclusion resources below: Business Disability Forum Conference Board - Council for Diversity Corporate Executive Board Diversity & Inclusion in Asia Network (DIAN) Diversity Best Practices Profiles in Diversity Journal The international platform for LGBT inclusion at work Women's Organisations Discover more about Women's organisations working on diversity and inclusion: Catalyst is the leading nonprofit organisation with a mission to accelerate progress for women through workplace inclusion. Find out more Cherie Blair Foundation Mentoring Initiative Men Advocating Real Change (MARC) Women's International Network (WIN) Values supporting diversity Shell’s values of honesty, integrity and respect for people are part of everything we do. Measuring Diversity and Inclusion Learn more about the targeted metrics that Shell monitors to ensure that action takes place and we can monitor progress in relation to diversity and inclusion. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Shell Talent Community Joining the Shell Talent Community is the best way for you to stay informed about global career opportunities in your area of expertise and keep up to date with relevant news and events. Supporting you when it countsAt Shell we strive to create an environment that accommodates the needs of our employees. Through our progressive policies for talent development and flexible working; we pride ourselves on doing everything possible to ensure Shell is a great place to work. Shell’s connected colleagues Networks at Shell help staff to connect, share ideas and support each other in reaching their potential. Find out from the people involved how these communities are helping them develop. A healthy environment Discover Shell’s workplace vision: linking people, place and technology to create a vibrant, energetic, engaging and productive working environment. A healthy environmentShell’s workplace vision: linking people, place and technology to create a vibrant, energetic, engaging and productive working environment. Shell Connect Workplace Standards In support of our aim to make Shell a great place to work, the Shell Connect Workplace Standards which are guidelines and design principles for workplace planning and design, are implemented in Shell offices. The programme brings Shell’s vision for our workplaces to life - linking people, place and technology to create a vibrant, energetic, engaging and productive working environment. There are spaces to foster innovation, knowledge sharing and communication from collaborative and informal workspaces to quiet environments to re-energise such as the energy hubs, meditation rooms, yoga and recreational area. Flexibility is key in our offices. There is a variety of spaces to meet your daily needs, thus providing a workplace that meets the changing needs of our employees and creating a great place to work. A healthy environment Shell has a ‘Be Well at Shell’ program designed to raise employee awareness on the importance of understanding health risks and the impact they have on our lives. The program helps employees to optimise their health and supports healthy choices and behaviour change through information, health programmes and on-line tools to enable them to be at their best. Employees can use the online health tool to produce a personalised health report and health score; view health information and link back into the Shell intranet to see the health programmes available in their work location. By taking an active role in managing our health, we can lower our health risks and improve our chances of preventing chronic disease. The Be Well at Shell, Prevention program, is designed to provide employees with the support to help them better understand their health and the steps they can take so they can be there today and tomorrow. Employee Assistance Programmes Shell offers an Employee Assistance Program; an employer-sponsored service designed for personal or family problems, these problems and issues may include, but are not limited to, relationships, health, trauma, substance abuse, gambling and other addictions, financial problems, depression, anxiety disorders, psychiatric disorders, communication problems, legal and coping with change. The programme is designed to enhance the emotional, mental and general psychological wellbeing of all employees and includes services for immediate family members. The aim is to provide preventive and proactive interventions, identification and or resolution of both work and personal problems that may adversely affect performance and wellbeing. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Shell Talent Community Joining the Shell Talent Community is the best way for you to stay informed about global career opportunities in your area of expertise and keep up to date with relevant news and events. Remarkable people storiesWe’re committed to inspiring change in the workplace, and to creating opportunities for development and learning that are open to all our staff the world over.Hear from some of our employees making an impact at Shell and discover how they’re developing their careers and inspiring change in the workplace. Career advancement at Shell We’re committed to creating opportunities for learning and development. Hear from our employees and their remarkable career achievements. Women in leadership Hear from some of the women making an impact at Shell and discover how they’re developing their careers and inspiring female leaders of tomorrow. Flexible working Want to achieve better work-life integration? Discover how Shell encourages flexibility in how, where and when you work to help you achieve work-life balance. Work life balance We have progressive policies around talent development and flexible working. Discover why Shell is a great place to work. Global mobility Discover how working with Shell, you’ll have the opportunity to work with leading professionals from around the world. Diverse workforce A diverse population in Shell contributes different ways of thinking. Discover why collaboration is critical to our success. Career advancement at ShellHear from some employees making an impact at Shell and discover how they’re developing their careers and inspiring change in the workplace.Great place to growShell has provided Ms Clairin Loh with many development opportunities in a range of jobs. Helping others make informed fuel choices for a sustainable future and getting to engage and interact with a wide range of people are what Ms Clairin Loh enjoys most about working at Shell. “It’s a big company and there are many opportunities to be involved in a range of jobs in different locations,” says the 37-year-old. In her current position as an Asia gas and liquefied natural gas (LNG) market development manager, she works with major stakeholders - including producers, buyers, regulators and government agencies - to promote informed decisions about the role that natural gas can play in providing energy. A nurturing environment For the chemical engineering graduate, carving out a career in engineering was the natural step. The science enthusiast had joined Shell as a business analyst in the convenience retailing business after a stint at the Economic Development Board promoting foreign investment in Singapore’s oil and gas industry. Since then, she has worked in different areas, from business development for alternative energy to launching a new marine lubricant to divest Shell’s businesses in the North Pacific islands. The diverse opportunities she has received over the years are a testament to the nurturing work culture within the organisation. “Colleagues are always willing to take time out to help. The culture in Shell is very collaborative and inclusive,” she says. “The fact that the company and leaders have taken risks in giving me roles in areas where I have no experience says a lot,” she adds. Ms Loh’s diverse job portfolio and the range of skills she has acquired in her various roles have come in handy for her current position. “I can apply my past experiences to a new business area, which is very exciting because LNG is a growth engine,” she says. Since Shell moved its Integrated Gas business headquarters to Singapore, there are now even more opportunities in this segment of the oil and gas market. Ms Loh enjoys working with her team that comprises members from around the world. Through their weekly meeting via conference calls, she has learnt to appreciate working with a cross-cultural group of people with diverse viewpoints. She has also learnt to interact with different people during her time with Shell. “Within just one year on the job, I got to engage with top policymakers, non-governmental organisations, academia, think-tanks, students, corporates and the public on various energy issues and share the benefits of natural gas,” she says. For Ms Loh, her job is more than just work, as it helps to ensure that “the next generation can enjoy a livable environment”. “I regularly talk about the challenges, such as air pollution and climate change impacts, that come with increasing energy use. By helping people understand the cause and effect of fuel choices, they will be more informed to make the right decision for a sustainable future,” she says. Although there are sceptics who believe natural gas is too expensive for Asia, she enjoys the challenge of developing fact-based arguments to convince them otherwise. That is why she feels a strong sense of achievement when the media, policymakers or key opinion leaders echo the causes she advocates. “Through this, we know people are listening to what we say and they agree that what we say makes sense,” she points out. Company support Besides providing staff with opportunities to grow, Shell also values and supports work-life balance and looks after the well-being of employees. For example, Ms Loh currently has the flexibility to work from home on some days, and was previously granted a year’s sabbatical leave to spend time with her two toddlers. “The organisation was extremely supportive and provided me a lot of help in finding a role after my sabbatical and easing back into work,” she says. She travels frequently as hers is a regional position. However, with the company’s support, she uses technology, like telepresence – a video-conferencing system – and conference calls to minimise travel. Shell also organises family events regularly, which her family participates in. Joining such events, she says, helps her family to get to know the company and her colleagues better. Ms Loh says: “Now, my four year-old points proudly to the Shell logo whenever we drive past the Shell station and says, ‘My mummy works there’.” Source: The Straits Times © Singapore Press Holdings Limited. Reproduced with permission Women in leadershipOur focus is on filling more senior country roles with local talent and developing and employing more women in senior roles. Trading their way to the top On International Women’s Day, Shell’s leaders explain why diversity is more important than ever. Charting the road map Shell production unit manager Christine Low runs a tight ship with an eye on the future. Charting the road mapShell production unit manager Christine Low runs a tight ship with an eye on the future. She shares her inspiring story of how her career progressed with Shell. She may be only three years into her role as manager of a production unit at Shell’s Pulau Bukom Manufacturing Site, but Ms Christine Low is already planning for its future with the vast opportunities in the organization. “My production unit is one of the first in the refinery. On the one hand, we have the pioneer generation of process technicians who will soon retire from service. On the other, we have a huge number of younger process technicians who have just joined us in the past couple of years”, says Ms Low. She leads a team of more than 100 people who make up the production unit of Area No. 2 at the Pulau Bukom Manufacturing Site. She oversees operations of the unit, which manufactures petroleum products. In the driver’s seat Ensuring that she has a road map for her production unit is Ms Low’s chief concern. She says: “The biggest challenge for my production unit is the transition plan. How do I rally all my frontline leaders to focus on developing the next generation to take over the baton to secure and sustain Bukom’s future? I must be the one who looks farther into the future, who draws the road map, or else everyone will be merely reacting to circumstances.” Training for the future Shell understands that training for next generation is part of the future planning. “We assign senior technicians to coach and mentor their younger colleagues. This transfer of knowledge and skills is critical in developing our talent pool,” says Ms Low. This arrangement is part of the Process Technician Training Programme (PTTP), which trains new process technicians on safety procedures, operating plant equipment, and other functional skills. Started in 2012, it involves classroom and on-the-job training. Particularly vital is reinforcing operational discipline to ensure her employees work safe and smart. This also provides a advancements with career opportunities in the organization. Ms Low engages her people in a site-wide programme, Bukom’s Pride In Production. She was one of the leaders who championed this initiative last year. On the improvements made, she says: “There is now more clarity of roles and responsibilities, work processes and performance standards throughout the whole organisation.” Evolving role Rather than working behind her desk, Ms Low adopts a “go and see” working style. At the plant, she is often spotted walking around the process units and control room, engaging her colleagues in discussions and observing how they work. The chemical engineering graduate from Monash University in Australia joined the company in 1989, spending the next 10 years as a process engineer. She says her 24-year career with Shell has been fruitful. As her career progressed, her role evolved. At Shell, senior staff are given a change of roles every four years or so. This has given her opportunities to try new things in her job, expanding her field of knowledge and expanding the land of opportunities. In the course of the 12 years she spent in the supply chain side of the business, she has taken on various roles from operations, integration and optimisation, strategy development, supply chain development, implementation to contracts negotiations. She also had the opportunities to be posted overseas to Shell’s head office in The Hague in the Netherlands, Guangdong in China, as well as Hong Kong. “These roles enriched my understanding of the business side of the petroleum industry,” she says. Next up for her: a leadership role in manufacturing. “My exposure to both the technical and business sides, which include operations and strategy, has equipped me with the foundation for leading a business in a very challenging environment,” she says. One of the few women She is unfazed about being one of the few women in the male-dominated industry, adding that Shell’s emphasis on meritocracy means she is not disadvantaged because of gender. “In any case, over the past decade, the company has been making the effort to retain and nurture technical females for leadership positions,” she adds. To young women mulling over whether to pursue a career in her field, she has this analogy of an engineer’s importance: “Like a doctor who is needed to diagnose and treat the human body, an engineer helps with the technicians to operate and maintain equipment optimally. “We troubleshoot and resolve issues together and make improvements.” This article was published in The Straits Times on May 31, 2014. Credit to Singapore Press Holdings. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Students and Graduates Are you a remarkable student or graduate with less than three years’ experience? Join us as we explore and discover better energy solutions together. Flexible workingWe encourage flexibility in how, where and when you work; so you can balance the activities that matter to you while meeting your job commitments. Curiosity the key to success Lucia Lombardo, Senior Legal Counsel shares her story of how hard work and dedication together with Shell’s flexible working helped her career advancement Looking for the next big thing Srividhya Vaidyanathan career is constantly progressing thanks to the fact that she’s always searching for ground-breaking ideas that can really challenge and change the business. Seeking work-life balance Joyce Loh, HR manager with Shell in Singapore explains how working part-time benefits her family and the business. Curiosity the key to successLucia Lombardo, Senior Legal Counsel for Shell Australia, shares her story of how hard work and dedication helped her in her career. Shell provides a flexible working environment and a lot of support in career advancements with learning and development. Lucia Lombardo comes from a line of inspirational women. Her grandmother emigrated from Italy to Australia after World War II. Stepping on the boat in Italy with one suitcase and her baby daughter, she only had a little bit of money and she couldn’t speak English. But her perseverance is what still inspires Lucia today. “My grandmother and mother have always been my role models. Everything I know about hard work and dedication, I’ve learned from them. They instilled a hard work ethic in me and told me that family life is the most important thing,” she says. “My mother died when she was only 49, and this experience taught me that you never know what the future holds - you can’t expect things to just happen for you.” Lucia joined Shell in 2009 when the major law firm she worked for sent her on secondment. When she got the opportunity to join Shell full-time, she jumped at the chance. “I’ve always really enjoyed it here and found the projects interesting - there are a lot of moving pieces that have to fit and work together and I like the challenge,” she says. “I’m a curious problem-solver. I’m very interested in what’s going on around me and I find my work very interesting. The lawyer in me loves seeing how things fit together and how matters can be resolved constructively.” Shell’s egalitarian culture also made an impression on her and this also is an way for work culture that makes the brand one of the most preffered organization for women and a great place to work. “Society will probably think this is a male-dominated industry but within the company, we’re all just trying to do our work to the best of our ability. Shell is very supportive of all its employees,” she says. “I have the opportunity to work on high-profile projects and still have time for my young family,” she adds. “I work four days a week, allowing me to spend some extra time with my daughter Sienna (7) and son Christian (4). But flexibility goes both ways - if I get to work late or have to leave early, I know that I’ll work a little later or start a bit earlier the next day. It’s a juggling act but I realise that you can’t have it all and you should just try your best.” That’s also the advice she’d give to working women. “Forget about absolute perfection in your life - you can’t do everything. I have good childcare options and family support. If you set yourself up with good help, it will make it easier for you to achieve your goals at work while ensuring the wellbeing of your family,” she says. She believes that work-life balance doesn’t really exist but that you should rather learn to manage your time appropriately. “Shell provides a flexible working environment and a lot of support in career advancements and learning and development. But it’s up to each individual to ensure the most important jobs are prioritised and that they ask for help. Sometimes people struggle to delegate as well - this is such an important lesson to learn. There’s no harm in asking for help.” Lucia is passionate about Shell’s mentoring schemes. “I mentor two people informally as well as some younger women in our team. I’m also a volunteer for our WOW mentoring programme where students from disadvantaged schools get the opportunity to ask us for advice about their future job prospects,” she shares. In terms of her own development, she thinks there are always diverse views on how to do things. “I’m still learning how to listen actively rather than immediately form a view and give my opinion. I think it’s something I’d advise everyone to do - always be prepared to really listen to others.” Fast facts Lucia and her team recently won the Upstream International Impact Award, recognising and celebrating teams that show extraordinary commitment to find ways do things, safer, cheaper and more effectively. Lucia’s husband, Nino, is a partner in a law firm and they are both first-generation Australians. Her family owns a home in Bunker Bay in the south-west of Australia where they spend most of their holidays. They enjoy swimming, walking, paddle-boarding and fishing. As a child, she dreamed about becoming an astronaut or astronomer. She loves having a quiet meal with her husband and reading books with her children. Careers FAQs Explore our Frequently Asked Questions and discover the answers you're searching for. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Students and Graduates Are you a remarkable student or graduate with less than three years’ experience? Join us as we explore and discover better energy solutions together. Looking for the next big thingSrividhya Vaidyanathan, Global Category Manager – Storage and Handling, doesn’t believe in getting cosy at work. Her career is constantly progressing thanks to the fact that she’s always searching for ground-breaking ideas that can really challenge and change the business. When Srividhya Vaidyanathan joined Shell in 2001, she had recently moved from Chennai, India to Houston, Texas. Leaving her job at India’s National Stock Exchange, she knew that she wanted to join a company where she could truly build a career. She joined Shell and 14 years later, she’s still as excited and passionate as ever. She works as the Global Category Manager – Storage and Handling, representing more than 150 oil and gas terminals worldwide as well as strategic pipeline assets in North America. This involves the management of key supplier relationships and delivery of integrated value improvements via contract management strategies. Sri, as she likes to be called, enjoys being involved in Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) leadership. She’s the chairperson for Women in Contracts and Procurement (WICP) in Asia Pacific and also volunteers for the Senior Women’s Network India. It is in this capacity that she helped launch a re-entry programme, helping women return to work after taking a career break. “It’s really important to me to be an advocate for women in the workplace, especially in India,” she says. “The Senior Women’s Network did an analysis on working women in India – we make up only 26% of the total workforce. Almost 50% of women who enter the workforce exit by the time they’re 30. This is due to the cultural understanding that women’s jobs are always secondary to men’s jobs. There’s a lot of social pressure as well with limited access to good-quality childcare, meaning that women leave their jobs to look after their children themselves. Throw into the mix the cultural expectation that women have to take care of sickly or elderly parents or relatives, and it’s no surprise that it’s hard to recruit and retain women in India,” she explains. This is exactly where Shell breaks the mould by offering flexible working to all employees. “I worked part-time after the birth of my first child and started working from home after I had my second child. There was no pressure to come back to work full-time,” she shares. “On the contrary, my second child was only three months old when I got promoted and moved to Singapore to fulfil my duties. Even though the opportunities at Shell keep coming, there’s always an understanding that people have personal lives too. Had it not been for flexible working, I would never have been able to maintain my career, let alone move into more challenging, but also more rewarding, roles.” Shell is filled with opportunities to move on to new things. “I’m always looking for the innovator, the person who can make a ground-breaking decision or come up with a clever idea which really challenges the business yet also has the power to change it for the better. If you have the right skill set and you can take on a challenge with both hands, Shell will always meet you halfway,” she explains. Quick quotes “As a child, I wanted to be a banker. Growing up in middle-class India, the most respected people were the ones who worked in public sector banks – they always looked very well respected to me.” “My iPad’s become like a family member. Had it been a real person, it could be the perfect musician, babysitter and assistant!” “My family is the heartbeat of all I do. I’ve got two lovely children, a husband and my parents and in-laws are just a few kilometres down the road.” Seeking work-life balance Joyce Loh, HR manager with Shell in Singapore explains how working part-time benefits her family and the business. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Students and Graduates Are you a remarkable student or graduate with less than three years’ experience? Join us as we explore and discover better energy solutions together. Seeking work-life balanceJoyce Loh is a HR manager with Shell in Singapore and works part time. She explains how the arrangement benefits her family and the business. Monday to Thursday you will find Joyce Loh working full pace in her HR role at Shell’s Pulau Bukom Manufacturing Site. Fridays are a different matter – her laptop is off and she is home enjoying quality time with her two young children. It’s a working pattern no one would be surprised to see women or men adopting in most parts of the West. But in the East it’s still uncommon. Joyce explains: “Face time at work is very important and long hours are common, and I think a lot of people are unsure how to start the conversation about part-time working, even if they are interested in it.” Joyce first experienced part-time working on an 80% basis six years ago after having her first child, Keira, while she was based with Shell Projects & Technology in The Netherlands. When she relocated to Singapore in 2009 she wanted to continue this pattern. “I began discussions with my line manager, who was willing to support. I initially did 4.5 days to build up my credibility, then after a couple of months of this working successfully, I moved to four days.” She continued this pattern after maternity leave to have her second child, Kaspar, now aged three. Her husband Michiel, a teacher at an international school, also works a four-day week. “It took time for everyone to adjust to me not being in the office full time,” admits Joyce. “I find it encourages me to be proactive and ensure I have meaningful conversations and work effectively when I’m in. In my current role I have the option to work from home but I choose to work at the site, because my role requires a connectivity with people that I feel is most effective when I’m physically there.” Effective working is something very close to Joyce’s heart, as it’s what her role of Organisation Effectiveness Advisor within HR is all about. She’s proud to have been nominated by colleagues for a Work-life Balance Award, during which they commended her as an outstanding example of ‘walking the talk’ and praised the way she juggles work with family life. As Joyce sees it, the part-time arrangement doesn’t only benefit her, but her colleagues and the wider business as well: “The company gets 100% delivered for 80% salary while I get the advantage of flexibility. If I choose to work in my time off, then it’s up to me but I don't feel obliged to do it. I think this arrangement helps with retention of talent – a lot of women drop out of workforce at mid-career.” Kathie Magness, Joyce’s line manager for 3.5 years, agrees: “Joyce is one of the strongest performers on our team. She has contributed high value to the site the entire time she has been there. She manages her boundaries well and has been able to maintain the commitment she made to her family while excelling in her work.” Charis Cheng, Shell’s Pulau Bukom Manufacturing Site HR Manager, concludes: “Line managers and employees going into a flexi-work arrangement need to be clear of expectations and boundaries, and at the same time exercise flexibility when necessary, which Joyce does. There is no compromise in Joyce’s work quality and delivery due to the work arrangement. We know that Joyce does not work on a Friday (and neither does her laptop!) so we plan for meetings accordingly.” At Shell, we value work-life balance. We support flexible working arrangements and provide various social events and networks to encourage our employees’ well-being. Curiosity the key to success Lucia Lombardo, Senior Legal Counsel shares her story of how hard work and dedication together with Shell’s flexible working helped her career advancement Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Students and Graduates Are you a remarkable student or graduate with less than three years’ experience? Join us as we explore and discover better energy solutions together. Work life balanceWe pride ourselves on doing everything possible to ensure Shell is a great place to work; we have progressive policies around talent development and flexible working.Global mobilityYou’ll have the opportunity to work with leading professionals from around the world, sharing expertise and points of view that will hugely enrich your experience Securing your own success Kylie has been with Shell for over 18 years. Her role sees her leading acquisition and divestment deals and mentoring talent. Exploring a world of opportunities Sheila Graham, General Manager for Commercial in Australia, enjoys the vast opportunities Shell offers its employees. Securing your own successKylie van der Sar has been with Shell for over 18 years. Her role as Shell Australia’s Business Development Manager sees her leading upstream acquisition and divestment deals as well as mentoring young women in the Shell Women’s Network. She had a exposure into a diverse field of opportunitues and shares her tips on creating your personal brand. Kylie van der Sar has always been fascinated with physics. Add to that her curious nature and interest in large, industrial machinery and fluid mechanics, and it’s easy to see why she decided to study engineering. After completing her degrees in mechanical engineering and commerce, she kicked off her career as a Project Engineer at Shell’s Newport Terminal in Victoria. Today, 18 years later, Kylie is Shell Australia’s Business Development Manager, leading upstream acquisition and divestment deals. Her work helps to shape Shell’s portfolio of opportunities in Australia. “I’ve always been attracted to companies who had large technological projects and a chance to work abroad with Shell was an exciting prospect. I’ve worked on projects in the Netherlands, Russia, across Europe and in Africa. I’ve now been back in Australia for almost five years,” Kylie says. She appreciates the fact that it’s easy to develop yourself within the company. “I’ve been able to plan out a career without having to move outside Shell. There are a lot of opportunities in the company. Also, when I think about the values that Shell aspires to around honesty, respect and integrity, I realise that it aligns with my own personal values.” According to Kylie, Shell’s flexible working policy is another benefit to employees. “I like the autonomy to manage my own time and the trust given to me that I will manage my workload. Thankfully in my role, the nine-to-five mentality doesn’t really exist and I can arrange my work to allow me to watch my kids perform in their school assembly or leave early to look after them if needed. Lars (9) and Hugh (6) are involved in any sport they can play and they are full of energy. My husband Irold and I try to spend as much time as we can with them. Flexible working is about being responsible; about delivering what you need to when you need to,” she says. Her job does come with challenges, though. “Seeing as my role has to do with acquisitions and divestments, I constantly have to look across different disciplines; legal, financial, technical, economical and sometimes even geological. But a lot of my time and effort also go into my team. I am always trying the get the most out of the people and to help them become even better at what they do. I realise that if my team works well and delivers well, it’s good for the business. Managing the work as well as the people is something I enjoy; I get a great sense of achievement from developing those around me,” she shares. "Passion is the prerequisite for any success; the driving force behind really achieving your goals." Outside of her day job, Kylie is an active member and role model in the Shell Women’s Network. Her goal in these activities is to empower young women to become the best they can be. One way in which she has achieved this is by leading a female mentoring circle and sharing her advice for building a dynamic international career and a strong personal brand. She also appears as a speaker in forums. “I find it satisfying to know that I can make a difference in the lives of people that I talk to and that they can learn from my mistakes. I also act as an individual mentor to a number of women,” Kylie says. Kylie thinks younger women can easily fall into the trap of getting into their work so much that they forget to showcase what they’ve already done. “Don’t forget to always think about where you want to go next – market yourself and find opportunities within the company to progress your career.” In turn, she thinks more experienced women should focus on building a network. “Reach out and establish relationships. Networking is an integral part of how we operate in Shell. If you try to learn from the people around you, you’ll make things a lot easier for yourself,” she adds. Kylie’s tips on personal branding Be clear on who you are and what is important to you. It must be genuine, consistent with your core values and not based on what you think others want to see in you. Be consistent. What you say, how you act and how you carry yourself in business as well as in private situations need to reflect who you are and what you stand for. Provided that your actions are consistent with your core values, this will not be difficult. Your social media presence forms an integral part of how you are seen and you should try to manage it accordingly. Career advancement at Shell We’re committed to creating opportunities for learning and development. Hear from our employees and their remarkable career achievements. Exploring a world of opportunities Sheila Graham, General Manager for Commercial in Australia, enjoys the vast opportunities Shell offers its employees. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Students and Graduates Are you a remarkable student or graduate with less than three years’ experience? Join us as we explore and discover better energy solutions together. Exploring a world of opportunitiesSheila Graham, General Manager for Commercial in Australia, enjoys the vast opportunities Shell offers its employees. Growing up in Aberdeen, Scotland, Sheila had many friends whose parents worked in the oil industry. She was attracted to Shell from the very beginning and dreamed about having an international career with the company. And that’s exactly what she got when she joined Shell in 1990 after obtaining her degree in Electronics and Electrical engineering. “Early on, I worked on both onshore and offshore rigs as a well site petroleum engineer, followed by various roles in Petrophysics in the NAM (Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij) and The Hague. My role in The Hague gave me the opportunity to go on mini short-term assignments to countries needing additional Petrophysical support, Gabon and the Philippines being highlights. I moved from technical roles into economics while on a posting to Australia, and from there I moved into commercial roles.” At the moment, Sheila is on her second posting to Australia. “I spent four years here on my previous posting and this time around I’ve already been here for four and a half years. My husband works for Shell as well – we’re a dual career couple which is great as we get to work around the world together,” she shares. Work is a big part of Sheila’s life and many of her friends are within the Shell network. “It might seem as if it is all-consuming but I don’t see it that way at all. The company is very important to me and even as a mother, I see it as being a part of my identity – hopefully I can show my daughters, Iona (13) and Ailsa (10), that it’s possible to have a rewarding career and a happy family,” she explains. Shell helps her achieve a good work-life balance, and the flexible working policy is just one incentive that makes things easier. “I have worked mostly part-time since my first child was born 12 years ago. I work four days a week and have Fridays off. This way, I can finish the housework and chores before the weekend starts, giving us enough quality time together as a family. “In my team I have three team members who work part-time and another who works flexibly on Wednesdays, enabling him to coach his kids’ football teams. I’ve learnt that flexibility can be built around your needs.” For Sheila, the main challenges at work are around trying to find balance between spending time to develop her team while making business decisions. “Even though my role is focused on managing, I’ve previously been more attracted to roles that involved a lot of ‘doing’. I need to bring my team with me but still understand the business – if I get into too much detail, I won’t have enough time for my team. This is probably my biggest learning curve but it’s a very rewarding process.” Sheila has had many fantastic managers during her career. “When I was working part-time in Aberdeen, my manager at the time told me I would drop some balls but the trick is knowing which ones are OK to drop. I still live by this advice. He also encouraged me to apply for a full-time role even though I was only working part-time – he didn’t expect me to work more hours but instead he said it was all about prioritising. My part-time work has never stopped me from getting promotions,” she says. “I’m always looking for explorers, perhaps because I’ve spent so much time working within exploration. Ultimately, I think within this industry it all starts with exploration – finding things and discovering things. And I like to think about things and work out a strategy to solve problems. I’m definitely a problem solver. “I have a rewarding career and the combination of different roles and working in different countries has meant constant new opportunities and challenges. The variety of roles in Shell can give you a sense of working for a new company while keeping the familiarity.” Quick quotes “My best advice to experienced hires joining Shell would be to invest time in building a strong network.” “As a child, I dreamed about becoming a ski instructor or chef. I worked at a ski resort in the French Alps for a season before joining Shell.” “I love Skype and FaceTime – our kids can keep in touch with their grandparents and cousins in Scotland and still feel intimately connected to their family even though they are living in a fantastic new country.” Securing your own success Kylie has been with Shell for over 18 years. Her role sees her leading acquisition and divestment deals and mentoring talent. Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Students and Graduates Are you a remarkable student or graduate with less than three years’ experience? Join us as we explore and discover better energy solutions together. Diverse workforceWe’re committed to creating diverse and inclusive teams. Learn more about our people and networks that will help you feel supported and inspired. Championing inclusivity in the workplace: Cherrelle’s story A champion of equal opportunities for all, Cherelle shares her experiences in both recruitment and customer-focused roles. Developing the female leaders of tomorrow Two programmes at Shell are helping inspiring women develop their careers and reach their full potential. Learn how. Gaining experience and expertise in Nigeria Get an insight into the experience of Australia’s Legal counsel, Nandini Pereira's, short-term international assignment to Lagos, Nigeria. Gaining experience and expertise in NigeriaWhen Nandini Pereira, Legal Counsel in Perth, Australia, took up a short-term international assignment to Lagos, Nigeria, she learnt a lot about her own personal development and built a wealth of professional experience. Nandini Pereira has always known that she wanted to be a lawyer or a journalist. She was born in Goa, India and moved to Perth, Australia with her family when she was five. She ultimately pursued a combined degree in Law and Arts at the University of Western Australia. Her early career started in a Federal graduate programme in Canberra after which she took up a position as an associate with the Industrial Relations Commission where she did statutory reviews, court work and legal research. Nandini then moved into private practice, advising on corporate and commercial matters. But her ambition was to do something greater, global and broader, so she joined Shell in July 2012 as Legal Counsel. “My role is so varied,” she says. “I do everything from supporting HR and Exploration portfolios to employment law, industrial relations and ad hoc legal work.” However, Nandini’s ambition is ever-growing and last year, her career development plans took her on an eight-month short-term international assignment (STIA) to Lagos, Nigeria. “Legal offers STIAs in several locations and I jumped at the chance to experience different ways of working in a culturally diverse environment. As soon as I saw the STIA being advertised, I knew it would be an exciting development opportunity,” Nandini says. “I really wanted to get involved in asset work and large projects; oil and gas production and the political and governmental regulatory processes attached to those operations really intrigued me. I wanted something challenging that would help me grow in my legal experience and skills,” she adds. With the wealth of opportunity came a fair share of challenges, though. Not only did Nandini find the operating environment a lot more fast-paced and dynamic, but she also had to deal with challenging environmental and governmental regulations. However, she took it in her stride, viewing it as an opportunity to advance her skills. “I had to advise on anti-bribery and corruption issues and deal with contractor challenges. Crude theft was almost a daily occurrence and government dealings were often prolonged. However, on the positive side, there is a tremendous focus on safety in the work culture. Given the size and scale of operations, when it comes to safety compliance performance, Nigeria is impressive,” she says. She enjoyed doing research in another jurisdiction and becoming familiar with Nigerian legislation. “Even though it sometimes felt like a sink-or-swim experience, I really enjoyed it. There was never a dull moment.” Besides the expected changes that come with a new role, Nandini also had to adapt to various other challenges. Upon arrival in Lagos, Ebola had just broken out in Nigeria, which spread a feeling of paranoia across the country and limited travel to other countries. “Every sneeze and cough was an issue at the time,” Nandini says. Add to that the closest presidential election in decades the week before she left, and it’s obvious that her time there was filled with excitement. “During the election period there were rallies in the streets and security was even stricter in my hotel and on the compound, but I never feared for my life. I still find Nigeria to be a beautiful country filled with lively, loving people.” A continuous learning experience So what is the best thing she has learnt? “The STIA exposed me to fantastic networking opportunities, as a lot of talented people and senior Shell staff are based in Nigeria. I am thankful that I had the opportunity to learn from them. “I have also realised that you have to be open to letting anything happen. A country as culturally diverse as Nigeria teaches you to have patience and resilience. It is a robust environment and living in a hotel by myself for eight months while my husband was halfway across the world in Melbourne was hard, but I will forever count this experience as key to my career development. “As part of my training for the STIA, the company encouraged me to attend an international oil and gas workshop that was conducted by the University of Western Australia. After the workshop, I had the opportunity to bring back the course material to share with my team. “In-role development is a big focus too and I enjoy the Shell Open University for staff where you can learn through courses that are run face-to-face, online or through blended learning. All these experiences prepared me for my time in Nigeria.” Considering an STIA? So what is her advice for others interested in STIAs? “Do it! It obviously depends on the chapter in your life as there are many things to consider. Living in a hotel for eight months makes you miss your own space. “Keep an open mind and see it as an adventure. You can’t expect to go to a foreign country and live in an expat bubble – you need to experience the local culture as much as possible. My experience of Nigerian music, dancing and literature are some of my richest memories that I’ll treasure forever. I learnt a lot from them and I’m thankful that I truly immersed myself in the country.” Now, Nandini is up for anything and will even consider doing a STIA in Iraq, however, her husband is not as keen on the location. “I would love to have the opportunity to work in a foreign country again – as long as the weather and the people are nice and warm.” Job search for professionals If you are a professional with over three years' experience discover how you can make an impact with Shell. Experienced Professionals Enhance your career development as an experienced professional with Shell and continue on your path to reach your full potential. Students and Graduates Are you a remarkable student or graduate with less than three years’ experience? Join us as we explore and discover better energy solutions together. People With DisabilitiesWe are committed to creating an environment that enables all employees to achieve their best, regardless of circumstance. This belief underpins how we work with employees with disabilities, ensuring they’re given a platform from which to reach their full potential and become the boundary-pushing innovators of the future. Support in numbers To support our employees with disabilities, we have a number of supportive internal networks in place, most notably the enABLE Network. First launched in 2005 in the UK, there are now six enABLE Networks across the globe, including the UK, the Netherlands, France, the USA, Canada and Brazil. The enABLE Network provides people with disabilities and people whose lives have been touched by those with disabilities an open forum to engage and share experiences. Through this open discussion, the network raises awareness and understanding of the challenges faced so that line managers and colleagues have the knowledge to be able to thrive in the workplace. It allows employees with disabilities the opportunity to improve the work environment and processes to make it more inclusive for all. Creating a space for this dialogue is crucial to facilitating the kind of open collaboration that is required for employees with disabilities to thrive. Open for sharing Disclosing a disability to colleagues remains one of the biggest hurdles that employees face in the workplace. Whether through positive or negative discrimination, the fear of opening up to colleagues is a real one. We encourage disclosure and empower our people to share their issues so that we can help remove them. We believe in honesty, integrity and respect for all. Together this creates a truly open and collaborative environment that benefits all Shell employees. Equal opportunities for all Shell’s Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) team takes great pride in actively promoting equal opportunities for disabled employees. It’s this commitment that first attracted Andy Kneen, Human Resources Manager for Gas in Projects and Technology, to the organisation. Andy was involved in a road traffic accident soon after graduating from university. After two years of rehabilitation, he felt ready to find a job. After a few years Andy wanted to give something back, so in 2005 he joined Shell’s UK enABLE Network, which at the time was a small employee group that discussed disability issues in the workplace. Since then, there are now six enABLE Networks across the globe, including the UK, the Netherlands, France, the USA, Canada and Brazil. “We use the network to raise awareness about different kinds of disability and impairments. It gives us the power to lobby the organisation and make the work environment more inclusive.” For Andy it’s a chance to give back, for Shell it’s an opportunity to create an environment that empowers everyone to reach their full potential. Recruitment scamsTake care to avoid fraudulent communications purporting to be on behalf of companies within the Shell Group. Find out what to do if you receive an email you think is fraudulent. Recent incidents have occurred involving organisations falsely claiming to recruit on behalf of Shell. These organisations, claiming to either work for or be affiliated with Shell, notify individuals that their qualifications were found suitable to work as an employee (local or expatriate) for Shell and solicit the transfer of significant sums of money to pay for work permits, insurance policies, etc. Please note that Shell does not (nor do any of the organisations that recruit on our behalf) ever ask for money or payments from applicants at any point in the recruitment process. All individuals who are successful in gaining an offer of employment from Shell, whether directly or indirectly, are always required to go through a formal recruitment process. Please note that these communications are fraudulent. They do not originate from Shell nor are they associated with Shell's recruitment process. Salient points of such communications are that they come from non-Shell email addresses (e.g. from a yahoo.com address); the use of English is poor; and at some stage money is requested. We recommend that you do not respond to unsolicited business propositions and/or offers from people with whom you are unfamiliar. Do not disclose your personal or financial details to anyone you do not know. If you receive such proposals, we would advise you to contact your local police station and provide them with all information you may have from the senders (email addresses, phone/fax details, etc.). Careers FAQsLooking for a quick overview of the opportunities available within Shell? Or is there something you are unsure about? Explore our Frequently Asked Questions and discover the answers you're searching for.Tips to apply successfullyLearn more about the various steps and processes involved when applying for position at Shell, and discover some top tips to help you succeed. Make the most of your CV Your CV is a key component of any application process. It is the platform to represent yourself and demonstrate your achievements. Here are a few handy tips to help you showcase yourself in the best possible way: Ensure that your CV is updated Try to restrict it to a maximum of two pages, and keep the layout simple Use headings like 'Education', 'Career History', Extra-curricular Activities, etc. to highlight different sections Don’t just make general statements about yourself – support them with evidence. For example, explain what you have done/ accomplished to illustrate the qualities you have Try to link your skills, strengths, and experience to the requirements of the role you’re applying for If you want to fill the application form faster, maintain an updated LinkledIn profile and use the tool in the form to import your online profile Personal details: Your full name, address, email address and phone number are the most important. You should ensure thatthe full name you provide in the application form is the same as that written in your other official documents. Educational details: List these in reverse-chronological order, with your most recent education first and the qualifications you obtained or will obtain when you graduate. Include the name of the institutions and the dates you were enrolled and graduate/ will graduate. You may want to list the relevant modules, the projects and dissertations you have delivered, the grades you have achieved, and professional skills you have developed. Career history and professional experience: Whether they’re paid, voluntary or shadowing, all experiences count! Present these in reverse chronological order with dates to show how long you remained in a particular role. Mention the scope of your work, what you achieved, and the skills you developed. Achievements and interests: If you have been involved in extra-curricular activities, co-curricular activities or community service, it would serve you well to include this information to showcase that you have a well-rounded profile, with a balanced approach to life. Focus on recent examples, describing your involvement, timelines, achievements, impact/ contributions and learning. Stage 1 Stage 1 of the assessment has two levels – a. Online game-based assessments, and b. On-Demand Video Interview. If you successfully clear the game-based assessments, then you would receive an invite to take the Stage 1: On-Demand Video Interview. Stage 1: On-Demand Video interview This short, self-recorded video interview is an opportunity for you to tell us about yourself. You will be asked 5 questions in all, and after each question, you will be given time to think and then to respond. From the day of receiving the invite, you will have 10 days to complete this interview. We recommend that you complete this within 5 days. Choose somewhere quiet with a good internet connection Test your webcam and microphone Make sure the area is well-lit and you can clearly be seen Preferred browsers are Chrome, Firefox or Safari (latest version). More information on the system and internet speed requirements Reflect on why you’re applying and what your standout experiences are. Be ready to talk about these in an engaging way Stage 2: Final Assessment Test your system one day before the actual interview. You may use the Virtual Interview Lobby for this purpose by entering it before your scheduled interview time. Use the Hirevue Specifications page to ensure your device meets the required specifications for this stage. Take the time to really familiarise yourself with the case study that you will be given prior to the interview (around 90-120 minutes should be sufficient). Be prepared to deliver a presentation to your assessors and answer any questions they may have. The assessment will last up to 2 hours and 30 minutes. Please plan ahead to ensure you are not disturbed and fully prepared. Don’t worry that the assessment will cover technical knowledge. Focus instead on demonstrating things such as your analytical capacity, drive and enthusiasm, decision-making, and ability to effectively communicate and collaborate at all levels. Do your homework by researching Shell and gaining familiarity with Shell operations, projects, sites and values. Learn about the capacity, achievement and relationship criteria we use to assess candidates. When you’re being interviewed, think carefully about the question. Gather your thoughts before you answer – don’t just dive in. Frame your answer to provide evidence of what the interviewer is looking for. Always focus on what you have done. Always be enthusiastic about your achievements. Keep your answers relevant to the question. Provide sufficient background information to set the scene, but be careful not to wander away from the question. Think of some questions in advance to ask at the end of the interview so you conclude on a positive and inquisitive note. We hope your application is the first success of many to come in your career. Remember that we want you to do well! Good luck. Shell Graduate Programme Discover the advantages of the Shell Graduate Programme. Assessed Internships Discover the exciting and diverse world of Shell. See what you could do and where you could go. Contact usIf you can’t find what you’re looking for in Frequently Asked Questions, you can contact us for assistance and information relating to your application or the recruitment process.Shell Business Operations Chennai SBO-Chennai is one of Shell’s fastest growing Business Operations locations, and plays a crucial role in delivering Finance Operations activities including continuous improvement for both Finance and Enterprise-wide data organization. Finance & Data Operations provides a single point of accountability for operating Finance & data processes, through standardization/best practice operations, continuous improvement and controls globally. An SBO-Chennai career could see you carrying out core Shell business Financial & Data Operations such as reporting & analysis, direct taxation, controls & compliance, local statutory reporting, data management and analytics. Chennai also houses global operation commercial services and customer operations for Trading and Lubricants respectively. At SBO-Chennai you will play an instrumental role in seeing that our world class standards are upheld across our global markets. As such, we are looking for individuals with a desire to learn and contribute to our continued success. With us, you will enjoy competitive remuneration and benefits, personal and professional development opportunities, and be part of an inclusive working environment that values Shell’s core principles of honesty, integrity and respect for each other. Re-energizing a Woman’s CareerIf you’re looking to restart your professional career, you’ve come to the right place. Project Re-energize With the aim to embrace gender diversity in Shell Business Operations Chennai, we created a program, Project Re-energize, to support women who have been on a career break, due to various reasons, and who aim to start a remarkable career with Shell. We continue to see great potential in women who have the ability to balance both the demands of personal and professional roles. With this, Project Re-energize, looks to provide you the opportunity to restart your professional career, with mentoring, flexibility and encouragement to support your goal to succeed. In this page, you will find several testimonials of our employees who have successfully re-energized their career, with Shell, as well as those who have been part of the Shell journey ever since. You may also browse through the roles available below for you to restart your professional career. “India’s unique fabric of cultural and familial values may sometimes put our women in positions where it becomes more difficult for them to continue or join back work - especially after breaks arising out of life changing events. We want to be an organization that understands these challenges, values our women workforces’ personal commitments and allows them to contribute & grow alongside Shell. Through Project ‘Re-Energize’, the intent is to give each successful female applicant the opportunity to custom define her career path, supported by elements of training and mentorship to help her better deliver in her role. Thus, instead of a ‘family OR work’ conversation, it becomes a ‘family AND work’ choice. I feel strongly for such initiatives and am personally committed to providing a caring, nurturing and empowering work-environment to Shell India’s women employees." Nitin Prasad Country Chair Shell India Frequently Asked Questions Application Stage: 1. How would my interview process go? For any role in Shell, an applicant will go through an interview process which will test the candidate on both functional and behavioral competencies. You may begin your application journey by browsing through our current vacancies. 2. What is the minimum or maximum duration of career break required for me to be eligible to apply for a role in SBO Chennai under the Project Re-energize programme? Anyone with a minimum of 6 months’ break, with a drive to re-energize her career, or any applicant who feels they are confident to sustainably meet business objectives can apply for relevant roles at SBO Chennai. 3. Is there an option to work part-time or can I work from home? Shell believes in offering a sustainable working environment for all their Staff so that they can strike a perfect work life balance. There are specific/identified roles which have part time working or virtual working as an option. We can discuss these further based on the role you apply for. Life at Shell: 4. What shift timings will I have to work in? SBO Chennai works with Royal Dutch Shell across the globe, and each employee is required to clock in 9 hours of work, including breaks. There are shifts starting from 7 am, but our general shifts go between 10 am to 7 pm. Flexible working hours are offered to select staff based on the project/ region. 5. How will I be supported to succeed in my career at SBO Chennai? Apart from the inclusive environment and culture Shell employees live by, and the respect that the management has in supporting your work-life balance, SBO Chennai also ensures you are supported, professionally. SWiCH or Shell Women in Chennai is a voluntary employee network to help women leverage their full personal and professional potential through self-development and business engagement. SWiCH builds on existing Shell policies and development opportunities to directly contribute and create an inclusive environment in Shell. The network is open to all SBO Chennai employees regardless of job group or business background, with activities that are women-centric. The network focuses on driving Networking, Personal Development & a sense of belonging via staff engagements. It’s a voluntary based group and provides opportunity to: influence the wider community shape the future for women in the workplace learn from each other and also inspire in return grow as an individual – by learning new skills (coaching, influence outside the sphere of control, leadership, program management) & raising own levels of awareness in a diverse environment build a network that can support and motivate you, and many more. Some of the key events that we held were Mentoring Circles, Stairway 2 Success – a career development series, Engagements with Senior Leaders, Floor Connects and wider centre connect activities. We have Core & Floor Focal who make the network a success. 6. Does SBO Chennai have any Daycare options? We are exploring options for the same. Meanwhile, we do offer a competitive child care allowance over and above your compensation which can be claimed by any women employee who has a child less than 3 years of age. 7. Does Shell provide transport facility? Yes. In Shell, we put a high priority on your safety, hence we provide you with a transport service facility to bring you home safely at the end of each working day. The table below depicts the centre’s transport policy. Shift Timing Transport General Shift Regular Timing (10:00 am to 7:00 pm) Pick-up and drop-off will be provided to designated points within the city within a specified radius. * *This applicable at specific timings for certain job levels. You may discuss this with your interviewer in further detail. (7:00 am to 4:00 pm) (12:00 pm to 9:00 pm) (2:00 pm to 11:00 pm) Door pick-up and door drop-off at the place of residence.** **This is applicable at specific timings for certain job levels. You may discuss this with your interviewer in further detail. Night Shift (4:00 pm to 1:00 am) (6:00 pm to 3:00 am) (4:30 am to 1:30 pm) (5:30 am to 2:30 pm) Door pick-up and door drop-off at the place of residence for all employees at all job levels. Late Sitting ( Beyond 8:30 pm) Drop at place of residence will be provided.*** ***This is applicable based on certain transport clauses. You may discuss this with your interviewer in further detail. Should you have further questions, please feel free to write to us at SSSCCH-Project-Re-energize@shell.com. Shell Business Operations Bangalore Join the first IT centre established by an energy leader in India and partner with some of the leading names in the industry. You will have the opportunity to work on pioneering initiatives that truly make a difference to the energy needs of our changing world. Your work will not only impact society today, it will also help find new ways to make and use energy for the future. Find out how you can collaborate with some of the brightest minds in the industry and become part of a diverse, motivated team with a supportive and inclusive culture. Explore opportunities to take your career to the next level. Discover the impact you could make with a career at Shell Business Operations Bangalore. Information Risk Management Our IT community harvests technology to deliver the most future-ready business solutions that help us make a tangible impact. Information Risk ManagementOur IT community harvests technology to deliver the most future-ready business solutions that help us make a tangible impact. Enabling Shell’s Digital Transformation At Shell, our mission is to deliver high quality, cost-effective and sustainable energy solutions to communities across the world. Our Information Technology (IT) specialists spearhead our big successes by enabling us to explore and consistently innovate. Being part of a company that serves over 30 million consumers daily translates to an opportunity to deliver secure and reliable digital transformation at scale across 80 countries. Our communities of technology experts identify new opportunities, pursue emerging tools and constantly reinvent themselves to deliver IT solutions that drive growth, streamline performance and promote efficiency. We are currently expanding our teams in Information Risk Management (IRM), CyberDefence and Security & Compliance, rapidly. What do we do in IRM? We protect Shell’s information assets against existing risks and potential threats to ensure secure and reliable operations for the company’s businesses across the world. Our experts tackle the growing information on security threats and challenges resulting from the digital transformation of Shell businesses. This is done by using technology and through creating awareness for users and business stakeholders. What do we do in CyberDefence? CyberDefence and Risk Operations operates at the forefront of information security, building trust, driven by world class experts and equipped with cutting-edge technology, to protect and enable our business today and into the future. The changing IT landscape provides many opportunities to move our business into the digital world, enabling improvements in the way Shell operates. However, with these changes also come greater challenges with regard to security, compliance and information and data protection. Cyber-attacks can cause damage to reputation, destruction of assets and loss of information. Shell is taking action to detect and respond to the continuous flow of these types of attacks. As part of Shell IT Operate, CyberDefence has specific focus on identifying cyber threats, discovery of IT vulnerabilities, advising on preventative security measures, monitoring for cyber intrusions and response to security incidents. It ensures that Shell can make use of the opportunities provided by the digital transformation effectively and securely. What do we do in Security & Compliance? As part of Shell’s strategy to become faster in adapting digital technology and to leverage new opportunities, Security & Compliance team takes cues from Shell IT Line of Defense model and Industry best practices to fully implement line of defense role demarcation in the Shell IT landscape. Identifying various risks to business objectives and deciding on respective risk responses is at the center of Security & Compliance's function. Security & Compliance also focuses on mitigation of the identified risks through implementation and operation of relevant controls. If you have the passion, curiosity and agility to solve practical problems, be part of our IT and digital community that harvests technology to deliver future-ready solutions. Help us make a tangible impact. In return, we will place you at the forefront of IT innovation and fuel your growth by giving you a Global platform along with pioneering projects, state-of-the-art infrastructure and excellent technical, commercial and leadership training. Digitalisation in Energy Digitalisation is transforming the energy industry, by improving efficiency and safety, as well as facilitating the use of renewable energy. Shell awarded among best companies for women in IndiaShell India has been named among the top ten companies in the 2017 Working Mother and AVTAR 100 Best Company for Women in India awards. For Shell, diversity and inclusion are a part of its core value and one of the founding premises of the company’s global theme, ‘Balance means Business’. The concept is built on the foundation that better gender balance leads to greater business performance. Currently, Shell India has over 12 percent women in leadership positions and still boasts of a young professional community with an average age of 29 years. More importantly, in a predominantly male industry, Shell has strived to incorporate 25 percent women in the overall workforce. Shell’s service stations alone boast 20 percent female professionals. The company’s progressive and woman-friendly human resource policies have ensured that the overall attrition of female members tank by 31 percent compared to last year. Targeted leadership programs for women in the middle and senior levels have been designed specifically to counter gender-specific leadership challenges. Shell has also engaged men in accelerating gender balance via targeted engagements through mediums like inclusive leadership theatre workshops, storytelling sessions, etc. additionally, the diversity and inclusion efforts instill an overall supportive culture which paves the way for career enhancement. Commending the efforts of Shell India, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, "Shell is proud of our efforts in making our company a great place to work for women and are grateful for the recognition. We understand the need to collaboratively learn and share best practices to deliver the shared vision we have, as a community. We truly admire and respect the many roles women play, both personally and professionally. Irrespective of gender, culture and sexual orientation, we have worked hard to create an environment that allows everyone to thrive in. It is not a 'nice to do' or 'checkbox exercise' for us, it is a way of life and we are committed to the journey while welcoming any help we can get.” Ms. Mansi Tripathy, Country Head, Shell Lubricants, India, said, “On behalf of Shell, it is with great pride and humility that we accept this award, acknowledging the work done by our leadership to ensure that we have a culture of equal opportunities to learn and grow. It is a recognition of our women network working relentlessly to enable best practices across the board, all leaders who are investing time to nurture women talent and every Shell employee committed to diversity and inclusion. We want to thank Avtar and Working Mother Media for the partnership and Shell remains committed to this journey keeping it at the core of its DNA. At Shell, balance means business and we aspire to bring that in every form of D&I initiative that we embark upon.” For Shell, India has proven to be an epicenter of innovation and delivery over the last decade. To support its expansion plans, promoting gender diversity and fostering inclusive leadership and building a culture that invests in future leaders are essential imperatives that will be intricately linked to its greater business performance. Live Your CareerAt Shell, we are committed to fostering an inclusive culture and creating opportunities for our diverse employees to thrive at work every day. Meet some of our inspiring colleagues and find out why they are passionate about their career while striking the right balance in their lives. Debanjali’s story Discover Debanjali’s 12-year career journey with Shell, where she has evolved through 6 roles in different countries, and has been entrusted with increasingly large responsibilities. Debanjali’s storyDebanjali Sengupta, National Sales Manager, Sales & Operations in India, shares her 12-year career journey with Shell, where she has been able to continuously take on new challenges, handle increasingly large responsibilities and become an inspirational female leader. 12 years… 6 different roles… different countries… different businesses… different business conditions, matured as well as entered new markets. Could you ask for a richer experience from any organisation? On many occasions, the organisation believed in my abilities and offered new challenging roles to me. I was appointed to lead a team of high-calibre Sales Managers with high delivery expectations in my early career life at Shell. Subsequently, I took on a different path in my next role as individual contributor in a newly set-up business development team. Having been with Shell for 12-years, I am convinced that the organisation always has bigger plans for you. In 2011, after cracking a milestone deal, I was planning to take a breather for a while. However, within the next few months, my family and I were on a plane to London for a long-term assignment with the Downstream Strategy Development team. This took my playing field to a global level and the learning experience was enormous. Working with the most senior stakeholders at Shell exposed me to the industry as a whole like never before. It transformed me into an oil and gas professional! Every role has its complexities that have enriched me. The most fulfilling part is the opportunity to make a positive impact to others – my team, customers, stakeholders and business partners alike. In my current role as the Head of Sales and Operations, I get to lead the best-in-class talents and make a difference to the lives of 250,000 people across the breadth of society every single day. Looking back, I have earned a few stripes over time - being the first female National Sales Manager for retail as well as lubricants businesses in India, and leading a team of frontline sales people with 50% gender diversity. The good thing is that I did all of this while being a mum to a bright, young girl. I have been blessed with the best people at and away from work who have made it all possible. My family and friends have always been proud of me. They have driven me to go further yet kept me balanced and humble. I have truly been able to live up my career because of them and Shell! Disclaimer: Views expressed are of the individuals featured and are not representative of the views of the Shell group of companies and their affiliates. Data ScienceInformation Data & Analytics is a growing capability in Shell. With over 7500+ technology professionals in our organisation we prioritise innovation and technology to have the expertise inhouse in order to accelerate our journey in reduction of carbon emissions using data and analytics. Automation, AI and Machine Learning is helping our projects and businesses become sustainable and affordable. Building the Shell of tomorrow, today Shell is taking giant strides in transforming itself into a customer centric business, diversifying the offerings from fuel to convenience items and services required to make mobility a delightful experience. Shell is also redefining its role in decarbonization – it is not just about going green for ourselves, but also enabling the larger sectors in their decarbonizing journeys. As part of its pledge to become net-zero, Shell will reduce & offset carbon across its own operations, its products and its customers. To exemplify the scale of the mission, achieving its target would require Shell to power 50 million households with renewable electricity, operate more than 2.5 million charging points for electric vehicles and produce eight times more low-carbon fuels by 2030. At Shell, we see the potential of Data Science and recognise it as the starting point of change – optimising our present systems and laying robust foundations to enable the delivery of consistent, affordable and secure energy solutions in the future. Our 500-member strong and growing community of data scientists use their skills and the best-in-class technology infrastructure that Shell offers to deliver insights, business predictions, and solutions revolutionising our approach to business. We are growing our community of data scientists and adding more thought leaders who are as excited about using data to power progress as we are. At Shell, we believe that transformation requires going beyond the use of new technology. It requires a cultural shift where businesses, technology and Data Science teams collaborate to redefine the future. Our scientists are proficient in technology, analytics, artificial intelligence, and research and have a practical understanding of how businesses function. This multidisciplinary approach enables our teams to seamlessly collaborate with Shell businesses across the world and deliver innovative, efficient and scalable business solutions derived from vast amounts of real-world data. With a presence in nearly 80 countries and a portfolio as diverse as Shell offers, our data scientists have the opportunity to work on a variety of projects at every stage of a business. This could range from building predictive maintenance systems for manufacturing and analysing thousands of measurements that our physical assets generate each minute to developing algorithms that optimise pricing of our retail products, using analytics and machine learning to drive effective marketing, optimizing our supply chains and terminal operations and building world class forecasting solutions for the volatile energy commodities. According to the International Data Corporation, there are 33 Zettabytes of data in the world, which is projected to grow to 175 Zettabytes by 2025. Nearly 90 per cent of that data was created in the last two years. At Shell, we believe that increasing data is an asset for companies of the future. Utilising vast data volumes in a scientific and structured manner can improve decision making and revolutionise the way we operate our businesses. To keep pace with and make the best use of data our businesses and assets generate, we encourage our scientists to explore a wide range of technology and learning opportunities to grow themselves and their communities. At our end, we actively work towards creating opportunities like the Nanodegree program, the E4 incubation program and organising hackathons and boot camps where our analysts and scientists can grow and upskill themselves further by learning from industry leaders. Data today does not come from tables and reports. It comes from blockchain, IoT devices, drones and several petabytes of videos from land and marine surveys, among other sources. Organisations and teams that can harness this data in real-time and deliver solutions that drive business value and accelerate energy transition are the ones who will find themselves in the position to make a tangible impact. Data Science for us is not just about technologies and algorithms, its about identifying the problems that can be solved, businesses & processes that can be transformed using AI and having the business partnering skills to drive real value on the field. At Shell, we count on our data science teams to help us fast-track our transformation and make it future ready for energy solutions. At Shell we derive success from our people working in global multicultural delivery teams. We offer flexible working conditions enabling to work both at the office and from home. We have a culture of continuous learning including people development and growth opportunities. We offer the opportunity and grow your career across all different areas of Shell. We have different “Neighbourhoods/Networks for you to mingle and innovate with like-minded people. Providing opportunities to grow along with a safe and fun workplace is a keen focus our teams have. Watch the new Shell strategy video "Becoming Digital at Shell” video Information Technology Energy and Innovation Information TechnologyYou can be a part of the future of energy. At Shell, you power your progress as we tackle the energy challenge together. Digitalisation and information technology are transforming our lives in ways that were unimaginable a decade ago. Digital technology is also transforming the energy industry by improving efficiency, safety and reducing emissions. Digitalisation is a key lever to accelerate Shell's transition to being a net-zero emissions energy company by reducing our operations' carbon footprint and helping us offer low-carbon energy solutions to our customers. Shell has been a pioneer in developing and deploying digital technologies for decades, and the pace of adoption is accelerating almost exponentially. We are building in-house capability and embedding digital technologies across every aspect of our business. We live our core values of honesty, integrity and respect, so you can work in an environment that encourages you to be the best version of yourself and respects the individual journeys that each of us will take. A Global Team: Our four IT organisational functions - Enterprise IT, Business IT, Information & Digital Engineering and Information & Digital Services and Operations within Shell work across four locations in Houston, The Hague, London, and Bangalore. Enterprise IT owns Shell's digital technology roadmap and steers our overall IT strategy to drive business outcomes and enable efficient IT architecture, data, risk, governance, and integration. As the architects of IT solutions, we deliver Market Standard IT Platforms by maximising impact from data. In addition, we design technology solutions that help to maintain a streamlined IT architectural foundation. Information and Digital Engineering (IDE) Information and Digital Engineering enables the creation of business-aligned skill pools and career paths that bring business and IT skills together to power progress through capability-building centres. These capability-building centres drive learning and upskilling programmes for Design Engineering, Enterprise Resource Planning, Information Data & Analytics, Project & Programme Management, Software Engineering, Transformational Change, Business Products & Platform Capability, Citizen development, Power Digital Core, as well as Strategy and Planning. Our business-facing IT teams lead groups of experts in our Projects and Technology, Upstream, Downstream, Integrated Gas and Renewables & Energy Solutions businesses – providing them with IT solutions that support their business objectives. These IT business interfaces provide thought leadership by developing strategic IT plans, managing portfolios, and driving delivery. They hold end-to-end accountability for technological solutions to strengthen business portfolio health and operating strategies, employing information risk management and compliance and assurance processes. They identify, create and protect value from technology and data investments and sponsor citizen development projects to achieve outstanding business outcomes. Information and Digital Services and Operations This team runs the IT systems that run Shell. Shell's Information and Digital Services and Operations team's collaboration tools enable our global workforce to come together and deliver reliable, secure, and affordable IT operations that support business strategies and build easy-to-use enterprise technologies. We build enterprise technology and operate IT for all our assets to enable people to work effectively, reliably, and securely. We create digital foundations for operating and maintaining IT systems that millions of Shell's customers and stakeholders rely on every day. In addition, we execute controls to ensure Shell's financials are trustworthy to investors and to help close books on time by detecting, managing, and reporting data and cyber incidents. Information & Digital Engineering Find out about our Information & Digital Engineering team, who develop delivery capability to equip people with the right skills, methodologies, standards, platforms, and tools, creating business-aligned skill pools and career paths that bring business and IT skills to power progress as we tackle the energy challenge together. Software Engineering Be a part of Shell's software engineers to collaborate and develop scalable solutions that accelerate business outcomes and open new possibilities. The software engineers at Shell apply excellent engineering skills within a vibrant global community of natural teams who are passionate about innovation and investing in people. Information Data & Analytics Join the Information Data & Analytics professionals at Shell who deliver IT technology solutions across the full spectrum of unstructured to structured data. Design Engineering Explore more opportunities at Shell’s Design Engineering - a vibrant global community of creative, tech-savvy design engineers and agile team players who leverage their knowledge and expertise to power progress as we tackle the energy challenge together. Shell Talent Community Joining the Shell Talent Community is the best way for you to stay informed about global career opportunities in your area of expertise and keep up to date with relevant news and events. Manage your application Discover the impact you can make at Shell. Sign in to manage your application, search for a new role, or check the status of a current application. Contact us If you need assistance and information relating to your application or the recruitment process you can contact us. Recruitment scams This is an important notice on fraudulent communications that have been made to members of the public. Careers FAQs Explore our Frequently Asked Questions and discover the answers you're searching for. Design Engineering at Shell is a vibrant global community of creative, tech-savvy design engineers and agile team players who leverage their knowledge and expertise to power progress as we tackle the energy challenge together. Design Engineers at Shell come up with innovative designs that help develop robust & compliant IT solutions for Shell's Powering Progress strategy – designs that is both fit for purpose and are world-class. We build cost-effective and scalable systems with excellent user experience to support our global operations. The team focuses on driving and adopting industry best practices in solution engineering, quality engineering, security & compliance. People development, business, functional and operational excellence, safety, diversity, equity, and inclusion are at the heart of design engineering. We embed a value-based working methodology and don’t forget to have fun working on these complex designs and systems. Excellence in Design Engineering See how our Design Engineering professionals are powering progress Grow your skills You have the opportunity to work at the forefront of technology, trends and practices. Be inspired to build your abilities, learn from experiences and grow the skills you need to get – and stay – ahead. You will be a part of a team of the best and the brightest colleagues who develop practical solutions, allowing you to learn and improve. Achieve your balance in a values-led culture We live our core values of honesty, integrity and respect, so you can work in an environment that encourages you to be the best version of yourself and respects the individual journeys each of us will take. Enjoy flexible working arrangements and receive competitive compensation & benefits. Collaborate with experienced colleagues Our business needs are varied and continuously evolving, providing opportunities for employees to explore different career paths. Work with professionals and leaders, each bringing their unique expertise to the table. We invite people to think differently and learn from the diversity of backgrounds, cultures, ideas and knowledge at Shell. Develop the energy solutions of tomorrow and today Play a role in developing solutions that support the energy transition and address the energy needs of today. Working across our diverse businesses and capabilities, you’ll have the opportunity to power progress for the world around us. Learn more about Shell Digitalisation in Shell Our Information and Digital Engineering team equips people with the right skills, standards, platforms and tools – bringing business and IT capabilities together to work toward common goals and create business-aligned career paths. As we tackle the energy transition together, our IT needs are changing and emerging digital technologies are redefining our operating environment by the day. Empowering people with the right learning and upskilling is essential to scale digital solutions efficiently and meet these challenges. We deliver digital solutions with a passion for excellence. Here, you’ll work in an environment that encourages you to be the best version of yourself and respects the individual journeys each of us will take. Shell's IT needs are continuously evolving as emerging digital technologies redefine our operating environment. Empowering our people with knowledge and upskilling is essential to scale digital solutions efficiently. We do this through capability-building centres established for design engineering, enterprise resource planning, information data and analytics, project & programme management, software engineering, transformational change, business products and platform capability, citizen development, power digital core, and strategy & planning. Information & Design Capability Centres Software Engineering Be a part of Shell's software engineers to collaborate and develop scalable solutions that accelerate business outcomes and open new possibilities. The software engineers at Shell apply excellent engineering skills within a vibrant global community of natural teams who are passionate about innovation and investing in people. Information Data & Analytics Join the Information Data & Analytics professionals at Shell who deliver IT technology solutions across the full spectrum of unstructured to structured data. Design Engineering Explore more opportunities at Shell’s Design Engineering - a vibrant global community of creative, tech-savvy design engineers and agile team players who leverage their knowledge and expertise to power progress as we tackle the energy challenge together. Software EngineeringYou can be a part of the future of energy. Together at Shell, we are transitioning to become a net-zero emissions business while providing the energy that people around the world need today. Shell's software engineers collaborate to develop scalable solutions that accelerate business outcomes and open new possibilities, applying excellent engineering skills within a vibrant global community of natural teams. We are passionate about innovation and investing in people to drive real technical ingenuity in the energy sector. Our global business provides an array of opportunities. Our career paths are broad, consisting of categories of work with a wide range of jobs and responsibilities. If you are a subject matter expert or a curious self-starter, an innovative thinker, and a team player, explore the variety of roles on offer in Software Engineering. You'll use your software know-how and technological skills to make a positive difference for people and communities everywhere while enjoying the support of our leadership and colleagues every step of the way; you'll build a purposeful career you can be proud of. Find your team & make your experience matter. Explore the broad spectrum of careers available. See how our Software Engineers are powering progress: Grow your skills You have the opportunity to work at the forefront of technology, trends and practices. Be inspired to build your abilities, learn from experiences and grow the skills you need to get – and stay – ahead. You will be a part of a team of the best and the brightest colleagues who develop practical solutions, allowing you to learn and improve. Achieve your balance in a values-led culture We live our core values of honesty, integrity and respect, so you can work in an environment that encourages you to be the best version of yourself and respects the individual journeys each of us will take. Enjoy flexible working arrangements and receive competitive compensation & benefits. Collaborate with experienced colleagues Our business needs are varied and continuously evolving, providing opportunities for employees to explore different career paths. Work with professionals and leaders, each bringing their unique expertise to the table. We invite people to think differently and learn from the diversity of backgrounds, cultures, ideas and knowledge at Shell. Develop the energy solutions of tomorrow and today Play a role in developing solutions that support the energy transition and address the energy needs of today. Working across our diverse businesses and capabilities, you’ll have the opportunity to power progress for the world around us. Information Technology Our Information Technology specialists are fundamental to the success of Shell, helping to build and implement IT solutions right across our business. Information Data & Analytics Join the Information Data & Analytics professionals at Shell who deliver IT technology solutions across the full spectrum of unstructured to structured data. Design Engineering Explore more opportunities at Shell’s Design Engineering - a vibrant global community of creative, tech-savvy design engineers and agile team players who leverage their knowledge and expertise to power progress as we tackle the energy challenge together. Cloud Native We’re part of big team that offers you a unique opportunity to make a difference across our energy businesses. We use cloud-native development technologies to build commercial, production ready software every day. Our team is responsible for maintaining our heritage estate, and modernizing it through open source tools, patterns and processes. Our aim is to digitally transform Shell. You’ll use the latest technologies to create digital solutions to meet the world’s growing need for energy while reducing our carbon footprint. And because we are committed to open source, you can share code and contribute across the software community. If you join our community of experts, we offer continuous learning and upskilling on new technologies to make you future ready, so you can shape the career you want. Business Platforms Our practice provides software engineering and subject matter expertise at the heart of our business operations. We provide choice and flexibility by acquiring market standard products, which we customize for Shell. Our software engineers provide a unique mix of platform specific technology capability combined with expert business knowledge to further develop and customize products. Our team is part of a big, diverse and multidisciplined practice committed to software excellence and offering variety of career paths for technical specialists to become principal engineers or managers. Software-as-a-service Salesforce, Workday and ServiceNow are our software-as-a-service offerings that we use to deliver solutions and enterprise-wide platforms for business, HR and IT processes supporting 82,000 Shell employees. It allows us to create new capabilities fast to enable business growth. Our teams are part of big, diverse multi-disciplined communities. Our Workday Automation centre of excellence capability delivers Bots to remove repetitive tasks which gives time back to our colleagues to focus on strategic activities. Our Salesforce centre of excellence continues to leverage our strong partnership with Salesforce and our strategic vendor partners to deploy solutions at speed to deliver strategic and transformational powering progress initiatives across Shell. Information Data & AnalyticsYou can be a part of the future of energy. Together at Shell, we are transitioning to become a net-zero emissions business while providing the energy that people around the world need today. Information Data & Analytics professionals at Shell deliver IT technology solutions across the full spectrum of unstructured to structured data. They have a deep business domain and technology expertise to build scalable and replicable solutions that drive business outcomes. Be a part of a community of experts, bringing ideas to reality and embedding AI in every aspect of our organisation, making our existing businesses more effective, efficient and competitive as we power our progress and tackle the energy challenge together. We work in communities, collaborating and co-creating at speed and scale. Hear how Information Data and Analytics professionals are powering progress at Shell Grow your skills You have the opportunity to work at the forefront of technology, trends and practices. Be inspired to build your abilities, learn from experiences and grow the skills you need to get – and stay – ahead. You will be a part of a team of the best and the brightest colleagues who develop practical solutions, allowing you to learn and improve. Achieve your balance in a values-led culture We live our core values of honesty, integrity and respect, so you can work in an environment that encourages you to be the best version of yourself and respects the individual journeys each of us will take. Enjoy flexible working arrangements and receive competitive compensation & benefits. Collaborate with experienced colleagues Our business needs are varied and continuously evolving, providing opportunities for employees to explore different career paths. Work with professionals and leaders, each bringing their unique expertise to the table. We invite people to think differently and learn from the diversity of backgrounds, cultures, ideas and knowledge at Shell. Develop the energy solutions of tomorrow and today Play a role in developing solutions that support the energy transition and address the energy needs of today. Working across our diverse businesses and capabilities, you’ll have the opportunity to power progress for the world around us. Information Technology Our Information Technology specialists are fundamental to the success of Shell, helping to build and implement IT solutions right across our business. Energy and innovation How we use human ingenuity, innovation and technology to power progress as we tackle the energy challenges of tomorrow and today. Digitalisation in Energy Digitalisation is transforming the energy industry, by improving efficiency and safety, as well as facilitating the use of renewable energy. The TAO team directly contributes to the success of one of the world's leading energy companies. TAO's areas of support cover a broad range of operations, from Asset Management Systems (AMS), Sub- Surface & Wells, Reservoirs Facility Management, and various global programmes. TAO partners as the remote team for more than 35 on-site assets from our Shell Business Operations Centers – Chennai (India), Manila (Philippines), Krakow (Poland) and Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia). TAO is an integral part of Shell's SEAM – Safety, Environment and Asset Management community that provides business functions with fit-for-purpose standards, deep-expertise, capability, insights, and integrated support and state-of-the-art digital solutions to achieve Shell's strategy of Powering Progress to accelerate the transition of our business to net-zero emissions. The TAO team – now close to 1900 staff and growing - provides services and remote technical operations support to multiple assets in Integrated Gas and Renewables & Energy Solutions, Chemical & Products Manufacturing, Upstream and Sub-Surface Wells & Reservoirs Facility Management. They partner with business units worldwide and often do so together with the deep capability of Project & Technology (P&T), Information Technology (IT) and Finance & Data Operations (FO-Data) partners. TAO's focus on safe, standardised, effective, and efficient process delivery drives tangible results, including reduced costs, improved asset availability, better margin opportunities, enhanced sharing of best practices & lessons learned, and reduced carbon emissions across the portfolio. TAO team members work in an energetic and diverse team, making a meaningful impact on Shell's journey to net-zero emissions. Get to know the TAO specialists teams: Asset Care (AC) Asset Care is a key player in Shell's holistic approach towards making our assets more reliable; it establishes the requirements for reliable operation by supporting Reliability Centered Maintenance (RCM) studies, asset care plan developments and “Reliability Availability & Maintainability” Modelling. In addition, the Asset Care team utilises digital technologies to enable remote inspection support, functional safety, and instrumentation services. AC focuses on delivering high-quality and sustainable asset care solutions that prioritise rigorous requirements for reliability. Team players at Asset Care are collaborative individuals who work with cutting-edge digital tools, offering pioneering solutions for inspection and maintenance activities across all operational asset units. Joining AC presents a unique chance to join a robust team contributing to Shell's broader commitment to sustainable energy production. Team members in asset care have access to the best training and development program and opportunities, helping them to advance in their career and professional growth. Asset Data & Digital Transformation (ADT) Asset Data & Digital Transformation (ADT) ensures that the data foundations are correct while powering Shell’s assets in their Digitalisation journey. It delivers integrated and quality data and insights for making sound business decisions. ADT establishes a robust data foundation and offers valuable insights to enable informed decision-making and supporting asset digitalisation. The team manages the project-to-asset (P2A) lifecycle, developing Computerized Maintenance Management Systems (CMMS), overseeing Operational Information Management Data, and managing documentation. ADT seeks Process Specialists and Engineers to drive digital transformation and achieve exceptional business outcomes. Process Specialists in this team serve as internal Subject Matter Experts, supporting the project-to-asset (P2A) process, coaching Asset Management System practitioners, and leading quality improvement initiatives. Engineers deployed in Asset Data & Digital Transformation process improvement, analysis, documentation, and results delivery to support digital transformation. Production Optimisation (PO) The Production Optimisation team manages Operation, maintenance and turnaround activities, Integrated Activity Planning and Scheduling (IAPS), and predictive maintenance. PO team also support Production Operations, Process Engineering, Economic Modelling, and Asset Integrity Management. Joining the Production Optimisation team at TAO Shell means being a part of the Production Optimization (PO) groups, which focus on ensuring safe and efficient production through process excellence in maintenance execution. Field Execution Optimisation (FEO) The Field Execution Optimization (FEO) team provides best-in-class integrated capability to support field execution activities in assets and projects. FEO sharpens the focus on maintenance and turnaround execution excellence by supporting work planning & work pack preparation activities for maintenance & turnaround, work permit preparation, maintenance optimization and project services. We are here to help and enable our field/asset colleagues deliver energy to the world. The project support services of the FEO team include cost engineering, cost control, cost estimation, Project Tools & Systems, Scheduling Risk Management etc., There are various roles such as Engineer - Maintenance, Engineer - Project Services, Tech Specialist - Maintenance, and Process Engineer to support FEO plans and operations that provide technical expertise & support in their respective areas, to ensure that maintenance, turnaround & project activities are aligned with the facility's operational and process requirements. FEO fosters a diversified, equitable, inclusive culture that encourages growth and development, especially in gender balance. We provide a global stage to our team members where they can contribute and learn, from wherever they may be. Subsurface and Wells & Reservoir Facility Management (WRFM) Subsurface and Wells & Reservoir Facility Management (WRFM) oversees end-to-end data management from exploration to abandonment for Asset Operations. The Subsurface and WRFM team of TAO provides technical support for Well Engineering, Geo-Information, Technical Reporting, Petrophysics, Geophysics, Hydrocarbon & energy accounting for Wells & Reservoir Facility Management. Engineers for this team play a critical role by providing technical support for domains such as Well Engineering, Geo-Information, Technical Reporting, Petrophysics, Geophysics, Hydrocarbon & energy accounting for WRFM. Their key responsibilities include loading and managing subsurface data, resolving data quality issues, participating in data projects, driving data quality improvement, and performing data management tasks. If an employee is passionate about delivering reliable, predictable results and shaping the future of work by applying new technology, the Subsurface and Wells & Reservoir Facility Management team would be a perfect fit. Technical Reporting & Digital Integration (TRDI) The Technical Reporting & Digital Integration (TRDI) team utilises technical reporting and data in Maintenance Execution, Production Optimization, Subsurface and Wells, and HSSE to offer valuable insights into our Shell assets. This team is one of the fastest-growing teams in TAO, requiring hybrid technical, reporting, and analytical capabilities to support a wide range of technical reporting activities that involve extensive digital integration. Technical reporting necessitates digitalisation specialists, who can provide significant value to Shell by centralising Technical Reporting, thereby enabling and empowering TAO to become a Trusted Advisor for Shell Assets. Deployment & Capability (D&C) The Deployment & Capability (D&C) team of TAO is a group of process excellence professionals who provide balanced support, assurance and thought leadership as reliable partners within TAO Delivery. Team members of D&C get the opportunity to unlock and develop their potential to drive continuous improvement in the support they provide. D&C is the perfect home team for employees looking to make a difference in the TAO space and advance their careers through access to best-in-class training and development opportunities. This team involves talented individuals working here as Tech Specialists - Prod Optimization (E&S) and Margin Optimization Advisors responsible for developing and maintaining refinery/base chemical capabilities and constraints models that help evaluate economic viability and make better operational and long-term decisions. In addition, these employees work closely with their clients/stakeholders to identify opportunities for improvement and support them in achieving their goals. Why Choose Shell Keen to learn more about Shell? Discover our purpose, meet some of the people working in the organisation, and get valuable tips to guide your application. Diversity Equity and Inclusion Our teams are more diverse than ever and being part of an inclusive, supportive work environment will ensure you are able to develop your career and reach your potential. Shell Graduate Programme Be part of a graduate programme where you’ll be supported to make an impact right from the start. Careers in high performance computingWelcome to the Digital & Scientific High Performance Computing team, which is part of the overall Shell's Projects & Technology, where we leverage the latest technologies and innovations to solve complex problems in the energy industry. Energy transition is the biggest challenge that our generation faces today, and we are using our skills to address some of these challenges. Our researchers are experts in large-scale AI (Artificial Intelligence), scientific computing, parallel programming, accelerator programming, and code optimization. We work with exceptionally large multi-dimensional data sets that can reach into the terabytes and beyond and perform large scale simulations on the latest generation hardware infrastructure to process and analyze data from all aspects of the energy value chain. We are developing new capabilities in Weather and Climate Modeling, AI for Sciences, Large Language Models, Seismic Imaging and Interpretation, Reservoir Modeling, Computational Fluid Dynamics and more. We believe that innovation, collaboration, and excellence are key to our success. Our team is constantly exploring modern technologies and techniques to solve complex problems and deliver results that make a difference. We work closely with our colleagues in other technology groups and external industrial and academic partners to ensure that we bring performance and scalability to our workflows, leveraging the latest advancements in our field. At the heart of our work is performance engineering. We are passionate about optimising the performance of our systems and applications to deliver speed, accuracy, and reliability. From developing new algorithms to parallelizing existing codes, our team is dedicated to delivering results that are both fast and accurate. What do we do ? Research and Innovation Our team at Shell applies the latest developments in advanced computational algorithms and HPC infrastructure for tackling problems in energy transition. Our goal is to look for new opportunities that enable us to make a positive impact on the world by enabling lower carbon solutions. Through collaboration with colleagues from across Shell and with leading academic and industry partners, we are driving innovation and shaping the future of the energy industry. Large Scale AI The team develops cutting-edge solutions at the convergence of HPC & AI, including training, finetuning, optimization and deployment of large language models, generative AI, and subsurface imaging models. We collaborate closely with colleagues across the company to optimize our HPC solutions for maximum performance, enabling us to handle enormous volumes of data. Through our work, we empower our colleagues to make better, faster decisions and stay ahead of the curve in the energy industry. We are building a platform to democratize access to our in-house Supercomputer for the AI community at Shell, making it easy to harness the power of large-scale compute. Scientific computing We work on projects to leverage the power of Shell’s on-premises and cloud infrastructure to simulate and model complex physical processes, such as fluid dynamics, geomechanics, reaction mechanisms, and seismic wave propagation. By gaining a better understanding of subsurface, predicting asset performance, and optimizing operations, we help Shell to make better-informed decisions and drive more efficient operations. Our team leverages advanced numerical techniques and high-performance computing systems to speed up computations. If you are interested in working on the most challenging and exciting problems in the energy transition, and if you share our passion for innovation, collaboration, excellence, and performance engineering, we invite you to join us. Our team is looking for talented individuals who are committed to pushing the boundaries of what is possible, and who want to make a real difference in the world. Meet The remarkable people at shell Business Operations We asked our employees to share their #LifeAtShell stories and let us have a preview on their work and life events. Each story touches on their personal views and experiences of working for a global energy leader, and collaborating with a dynamic team at Shell Business Operations. Computational Science Read how Shell develops physics-based models to predict the behaviour of materials and systems using High Performance Computing. A Journey in Pursuit of Technological Solutions for the Energy IndustryI am currently working as an HPC Researcher at Shell, based out of the Shell Technology Center Houston where I am undergoing an International Assignment. In my current role, I work at the intersection of computing, artificial intelligence and science. I would describe my career path more aptly by a reverse edition of a popular phrase in energy industry and in Shell i.e., barrels to bits. I did an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering with special focus on refining and petrochemicals. The first job after my undergraduate studies was in a govt. of India’s leading public sector undertaking in the fertilizer sector. I still remember and relish my experiences of working in a chemical manufacturing facility at the heart of Mumbai. To sum it up it was like experiencing modern alchemy at industrial scale. But as I got more and more experiences of the plant control room, I could see digital solutions being one of the key enablers of advanced process control. Fast forward to now, through my postgraduate and PhD in Chemical engineering and the subsequent industrial experience, I have always kept a focus on digital solutions for scientific and engineering applications. I picked up my computational skills while working on the interdisciplinary area of computational physics for multiphase flows at meso and macro scale. While creating my own scientific computing and AI solutions, my problems either got bigger or harder to an extent that it needed cutting edge computational hardware and performance efficient algorithms to get the solutions in a reasonable time frame. Right at the start of my PhD in the Netherlands, my advisor asked a few of the newly joined grad students to attend a fall school on High Performance Computing at the HPC Center Stuttgart (HLRS) in Germany. I still fondly remember the experience of walking into the supercomputer room seeing a computer that occupies the complete floor with fancy artwork panels to hide the wiring complexities beneath. Being a CSER PhD graduate, I had the option to join Shell after completing my PhD and I interacted with few team leads and their portfolio. I was quite interested in further pursuing my hands-on computing expertise and HPC team got my attention because they were operating at the confluence of computing, artificial intelligence and physics/science. In my current role in Shell, I have collaborated with wide range of stakeholders on projects such as exascale seismic inversion, large scale AI for machine vision application, edge computing and scientific machine learning, to name a few. During the GTKYs (get-to-know-you) with new stakeholders and informal coffee chats with new faces Shell never fails to amaze me and making me feel: wow, I didn’t knew there are people working in this area as well in Shell! Through the much more formalised training programs such as the Shell Graduate Program and the Shell Advanced Technical Program for early career researchers, Shell also provides a host of technical as well as non-technical and leadership learnings. Safety, care for employees and their families and work life balance are some of the other areas where Shell has had a remarkable impression on me. The company’s focus on energy transition clearly points to the fact that the future energy systems will be more heterogeneous, dynamic and intermittent in nature, requiring bringing in some of the most advanced technological solutions in the energy sector. As the digital solutions grow in scale and complexity, computing will continue to evolve as the frontrunner in this journey. I see many more like me in Shell in taking pride in what we do and doing our tiny step contributing to the larger leap towards our sustainability ambitions for the greater benefit to the society. Meet The remarkable people at shell Business Operations We asked our employees to share their #LifeAtShell stories and let us have a preview on their work and life events. Each story touches on their personal views and experiences of working for a global energy leader, and collaborating with a dynamic team at Shell Business Operations. Computational Science Read how Shell develops physics-based models to predict the behaviour of materials and systems using High Performance Computing. Balancing Parenthood and Professional Growth: My Journey with ShellI am currently working as a researcher in the Digital & Scientific High Performance Computing (DASH) team of Shell at Shell Technology Centre, Bangalore, India. Before joining Shell, I spent a short time working in a major research organization in Belgium after defending my PhD thesis. It was a great experience working in a foreign nation with beautiful minds. As I was stepping into my professional journey, I was blessed with a life in my womb that added new responsibilities. While everything was going fine, some complications in my pregnancy made it difficult for me to manage things far away from home and family. My introduction to the DASH team of Shell came through around that time, and I feel lucky enough to have come across such a great organization. While I knew Shell as a major player in the energy sector, I had little knowledge about the significant role of the DASH team working behind the scenes. Gradually, as I dived deep, I realized the value being added by the DASH team to the Shell business, and I was super excited to become a part of this energy giant. When I broke the news of my pregnancy to my line manager, I vividly remember his words. He said, “Mitali, first of all, congratulations, and secondly, you can avail maternity leave even from the first day of joining Shell!!”. The interview went through, I accepted the offer letter, and after a couple of weeks, I went on maternity leave - that’s how my journey at Shell began on a very unconventional note! As I joined back from maternity leave, I received a very warm welcome from my team, who helped me transition smoothly into the workplace. At this point, I have just started to work on my first project in Shell. While I am in the initial phase of understanding the project requirements, etc., I am already keen to learn and grow within the community. The positive impact of past projects handled by the team drives me to work and contribute to the growth of Shell businesses. I am currently part of a project that will support Shell’s plan to achieve net-zero emissions and drive its powering progress strategy. It really excites me to be a part of the journey that will not only provide energy to power the world but will also make it a better place to live for future generations. Last but not the least, I also want to share my experience with the amazing HSSE (Health, Safety, Security and Environment) goal at Shell. I remember a joke cracked by a stand-up comedian at a Shell internal festival. It goes like this: At Shell, whenever someone asks – How are you? The answer should not be “I am good/I am fine” It should be –“I am SAFE”. Even with my limited experience, I can vouch for the culture at Shell, which puts its employee’s health and safety to the utmost priority. As a new mother, it is challenging to keep a balance between my personal and professional life, but I deeply believe that the robust environment at Shell will help me to achieve both my professional and personal goals. Meet The remarkable people at shell Business Operations We asked our employees to share their #LifeAtShell stories and let us have a preview on their work and life events. Each story touches on their personal views and experiences of working for a global energy leader, and collaborating with a dynamic team at Shell Business Operations. Computational Science Read how Shell develops physics-based models to predict the behaviour of materials and systems using High Performance Computing. Technology to tackle the energy challengeYou can be a part of the future of energy. At Shell, you power your progress as we tackle the energy challenge together. We recognise the important role that technology plays in our Powering Progress strategy, delivering the energy needed for today whilst focusing on a carbon neutral future. Built on more than 125 years of technological innovation, our company’s future performance depends on the successful development and deployment of new technologies and new products. With over 3.300 highly-skilled people in our Shell Technology community, we invest over $1bln yearly in Research & Development (R&D) for evolving new solutions that support energy activities, both in digital and physical technologies – or a combination of both – and in a variety of scientific fields such as chemistry, physics, engineering, electronics, and computational sciences. Through this organisation, we’re able to leverage human ingenuity not only to unlock more, cleaner energy on an ongoing basis, but also to deliver more value through enhanced processes that strengthens our performance in already operating assets. Our technologies are crucial to achieving our target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050, and to grow a competitive Renewables and Energy Solutions portfolio. Therefore, we research and develop disruptors that can radically unleash new business opportunities in the future. In 2022, our R&D expenditure on projects that contributed to decarbonisation was around 41% of our total spend. But we also work on technology improvements that keep our products, services, and business operations competitive in the short and in the mid-terms. Together with the relevant lines of businesses, we work to determine the content, scope, and budget of these developments, ensuring a constant alignment of our technology portfolio with Shell’s strategic ambitions and project’s funnel to deliver the energy challenge of today, whilst preparing for a future carbon neutral energy system. About working at Shell Discover what makes working at Shell unique, learn more about our values-led culture, meet some of our people working in the organisation and get valuable tips to guide your application. Find out more about working at Shell Where do you fit? See all jobs at Shell The role technology plays At Shell, we recognise the important role that technology plays in our Powering Progress strategy, delivering the energy needed for today whilst focusing on a carbon neutral future. Renewables and Energy Solutions Shell is building an integrated power business. Read more about how we are moving customers into a lower-carbon future. Be at the forefront You’ll have the opportunity to help tackle the energy challenge, working at the forefront of new technology, trends and practices to both accelerate tomorrow’s transitions and address today’s energy needs. Shared purpose and passion You’ll have the opportunity to power positive change for the world around us, working alongside colleagues who share a sense of purpose and a commitment to progress. Global talent, diverse businesses Work with professionals and leaders, each bringing their unique expertise as a vital part of a highly diverse international team. Depending on your location and role, you may get the chance to participate in overseas learning programmes, as well as short and long-term international assignments. Personal growth Personal development is the priority of the organisation. Our development programmes are recognised as industry leading. Shell's 'learner mindset' environment helps unlock the potential in each of us, creating a supportive, high-performance environment based on openness, curiosity and growth, where you can learn from experiences and build the skills that let you grow today and lead in future. We do this by investing heavily in our employees’ capabilities through on-the-job learning, coaching and mentoring, knowledge management, and formal training. Training is delivered in-house, online, or in partnership. Global-scale participation You’ll have the opportunity to actively participate in external engagements as participants, sponsors, and keynote speakers, helping us to share our expertise, gain learnings and refresh our perspective. Learn today, lead tomorrow Learning curriculum Our learning curriculum contains a wide range of resources and content: from face-to-face commercial and technical learning programmes to online courses, webcasts, e-books and guides. Core values We live our core values of honesty, integrity and respect, so you can work in an environment that encourages you to be the best version of yourself and respects the individual journeys each of us will take. Our values and how we care for people are an important part of life at Shell. Community groups At Shell, we aim to become one of the most diverse and inclusive organisations in the world, a place where everyone feels valued, respected and a strong sense of belonging. We’re proud of our employee networks which include 126 ERGs across more than 30 countries and regions. Our ERGs cover a variety of groups, including: Gender, Race and ethnicity, LBGT+ and Disability Inclusion and enABLEment, experience levels (e.g new graduates and experienced hires), parents, military service and many more. On-boarding buddy Each new joiner is assigned an ‘On-boarding buddy’ or ‘Graduate buddy’ who will help familiarise you with the way that we work at Shell. Supportive network Our supportive network will help you settle in, build friendships and offer you an exciting opportunity to lead or coordinate business or community activities. Approachable leaders Our culture is informal, with a flat hierarchy. Doors to senior management are open for everyone to discuss their views and ask questions, because we believe that accessible colleagues accelerate learning. Teamwork We have a recognised culture of achieving goals through teamwork. It’s a global success, which comes from our unique combination of physical, remote and virtual teams delivering exciting projects, and championing cross-cultural differences. Strong rewards and benefits packages Shell offers compensation and benefits packages considered to be among the best in the world. Check the Shell website in your country for specific rewards and benefits packages we offer. Many locations offer subsidised services such as sports facilities, medical/dental care and car parking. In many countries, you’ll have the chance to participate in a Shell Share programme, enabling you to purchase shares of company stock at a lower price. Work-life balance We have flexible working arrangements and paid time off that help you achieve a fulfilling work-life balance. For example, we offer global minimum maternity, paternity, and non-birthing parental leave. Just one of the many flexible working policies we have in place to ensure you have more time to do the things you love. Paid maternity leave Shell offers a global minimum standard of 16 weeks paid maternity leave, enabling new mothers to put their families first and spend more time with their newborns. Paid maternity leave Paid parental leave Shell offers a minimum of 8 weeks paid leave to all non-birthing parents, including new dads and parents welcoming a child via surrogacy or adoption. Paid parental leave Rewarding your performance On top of a competitive starter salary, you’ll be recognised and rewarded through performance-related pay. The extent of the pay will depend on your merit, role, location and Shell’s business performance. Global Minimum Standard for paid Maternity Leave Shell offers a global minimum standard of 16 weeks paid maternity leave, enabling new mothers to put their families first and spend more time with their newborns. Global Minimum Standard For Paid Parental Leave Shell offers a global minimum of 8 weeks paid parental leave. Awards and Recognition Shell has earned awards worldwide for our commitment to excellence as an employer. Candidate Resource Centre Browse through our Resource Centre for hints and tips that can help you when applying for a job, and learn more about life at Shell. Manage your application Discover the impact you can make at Shell. Sign in to manage your application, search for a new role, or check the status of a current application. Contact us If you need assistance and information relating to your application or the recruitment process you can contact us. Recruitment scams This is an important notice on fraudulent communications that have been made to members of the public. Careers FAQs Explore our Frequently Asked Questions and find the answers you’re looking for. Employee StoriesAt Shell you can be a part of the future of energy. Together we are transitioning to become a net-zero emissions business while providing the energy that people around the world need every day.Discover how some of our colleagues are powering their progress. Uniting different generations with a passion for progress Ed shares his experience of open collaboration across the diverse backgrounds, ideas and generations that Shell brings together. Learning and leading, every day In her role as a Process Manager, Hema draws on the Shell learner mindset to develop new skills and stay ahead. Thriving under supportive leadership Shell's culture is built on honesty, integrity and respect. Hear how it helped Jonho step up and transition to a new leadership role. WOMEN’S PERSPECTIVE Dreaming big Shell offers the opportunity to progress and the flexibility to balance priorities. Hear how Marwa Al-Ansary is pursuing her dream while inspiring others. Learn today, lead tomorrow Embrace real responsibility as you progress: discover how our Graduate Programme helped geologist Tamara Morales Rua power her growth. Unlocking potential Irene's internship has powered her progress—right to the forefront of technology, trends and practices in energy. Gaining diverse experience As an intern, Grace gained access to the richness and scale of people, teams and knowledge that exist at Shell. Inspiring dreams Nissa was born visually impaired but that hasn’t stopped her pursuing her dreams. Be inspired by how Nissa benefits from a culture led by honesty, integrity and respect – without barriers to progress. Getting the balance right Shell helps you balance priorities to be the best version of you. Hear how Luis Flores combines a rewarding career with the moments that matter in family life. Championing inclusion at work Cherelle is powering progress when it comes to fair and equal treatment, respect and inclusion. Discover how, in both recruitment and customer-focused roles, she’s supporting Shell’s goal of becoming one of the world’s most diverse and inclusive places to work. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion At Shell, we’re working to become one of the most diverse and inclusive organisations in the world, a place where everyone feels valued, respected and a strong sense of belonging. Power your progress. At Shell, you can tackle important challenges to transform the energy landscape. Find out more about how our employees power their progress. MediaIn this section you will find all the latest news and media releases from the Shell Group of Companies in India. Shell India announces Bollywood actor Shahid Kapoor as the brand ambassador for its Lubricants business Jun 16, 2023 National: Shell India has onboarded Bollywood versatile actor Shahid Kapoor as the brand ambassador for its Lubricants business in India. Shell is looking to expand its customer base and will bank on Kapoor’s pan-India popularity and youthful energy across all age groups. Media Enquiry Please use the online form below to submit your media related enquires only. Submit Media Enquiry India to be key destination for energy transition gear in 5 years, says Shell's Huibert Vigeveno Mar 30, 2023 Huibert Vigeveno, Downstream and Renewables Director explains Shell’s Powering Progress strategy and how India will become an important destination for sourcing energy transition equipments in future. Shell’s Pratibha Priyadarshini on why diversity and inclusion in the energy sector is crucial for energy transition Mar 27, 2023 Pratibha Priyadarshini VP and Head of HR, discusses about how diversity and inclusion will be instrumental for a successful energy transition. In conversation with Nakul Raheja, Country Head, Shell Energy India Mar 23, 2023 Watch this insightful interview with Nakul Raheja, Country Head of Shell Energy India, to learn more about India's energy landscape, the challenges, opportunities and solutions for the way forward, and Shell's vision for a sustainable future. The Hindu BusinessLine | Shell Café debuts in India; opens sit-down restaurant in Bengaluru Feb 03, 2023 Istvan Kapitany Global Executive Vice President, Shell highlights about company's strategic plans to transform the fuel retail business in India and integrated value propositions for customers. The Hindu BusinessLine | Helping hand. Moving LNG on wheels for small scale users Nov 27, 2022 Shell Energy’s truck loading of LNG improves access to clean energy for off-grid industries Shell Energy’s truck loading of LNG improves access to clean energy for off-grid industries The Hindu BusinessLine | Shell E4 Program eyes investment in deep tech start-ups in energy and mobility space Nov 19, 2022 Shell’s flagship start-up incubation programme, Shell E4 program, has expanded its investment themes to include deep tech companies working in energy and mobility space, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India told businessline. MINT | ‘Need more contingency in PPA pricing for solar power amid rising costs’ Oct 13, 2022 Shell’s Global Renewable Generation EVP Thomas Brostrom & Nitin Prasad, chairman of Shell Companies in India, talks about the acquisition of Actis Llp’s Indian renewable energy platform Sprng Energy by Shell. Times of India | Shell Lubricants doubling down on India: Expands B2C services, sustainable products, and data centre hold Aug 16, 2022 Shell Lubricants global executive vice-president Machteld De Haan talks about expansion plans for India and new opportunities in the market for the Shell Lubricants business. MINT | Shell Lubricants to Sell EV battery coolants in India Aug 08, 2022 Shell Lubricants global executive vice-president Machteld De Haan, and India head, Debanjali Sengupta, speak about Shell's diversification plans and how we are looking to become a global lubricant and fluid solutions company, shifting beyond its original focus only on lubricants. ET EDGE Podcast | India’s Transition to an equitable Net Zero Economy Listen to an in-depth conversation between Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India and Dr Vibha Dhawan, Director General, TERI as they discuss the future of energy and delve into key insights representing the current scenario, future implications and possible outcomes for the evolving energy market in India. Podcast May 12, 2022 Shell to set up LNG stations, bullish on gas market in India Apr 10, 2022 Global energy giant Shell will foray into retailing LNG for long-haul transportation like trucks, with its first filling station coming up in Gujarat this year as it bets big on the Indian gas market, a senior company official said. As an HR Head, you cannot divorce understanding of the business and do your job: Pratibha Priyadarshini Mar 23, 2022 In an interview with ETHRWorld, Pratibha Priyadarshini – VP – HR, Shell India, talks about how the company is leveraging technology to streamline its HR processes, the senior leadership commitment towards diversity & inclusion, and the future of work. This is a year that no vision statement prepared the humanity for Jun 02, 2020 If we can’t bring people to the workplace, we must find ways to bring the workplace to them, says Tarun Varma, Vice President - HR, Shell India. Royal Dutch Shell wants GST on natural gas Feb 25, 2019 GST on natural gas will make transport of the fuel across India efficient, says Shell Energy Asia VP Ajay Shah Shell owns the 5 million metric tonne Hazira LNG terminal in Gujarat and is also present in fuel retailing Access to pipelines a key issue in unlocking India’s natural gas potential. Feb 25, 2019 Shah told ETEnergyWorld that the company’s 5 Million Tonne Per Annum (MMTPA) Hazira LNG terminal plans to have a truck loading unit which will allow transportation of natural gas through trucks and the facility can also be used to fuel heavy-duty vehicles run on natural gas. C-Suite Asia: Retail oil push, EV infrastructure feature in Shell's India growth ambitions Jun 05, 2018 Singapore (Platts) - India's sweeping reforms in the oil sector, its insatiable appetite for fuel and an urgency to embrace new forms of energy provided Shell with the ideal platform for growth in one of Asia's fastest growing markets, country CEO Nitin Prasad said last Friday. We are at the top globally, our ambition is to become no.1 in India May 01, 2018 Despite the competition from price-sensitive regional players and dominant PSUs, Shell India has grown at a CAGR of 20% in the last 5 years, and with aggressive expansion plans the momentum will continue in the coming years, Mansi Tripathy, managing director, Shell India Markets, told Vikas Srivastava during an exclusive interview. Shell India launches fully synthetic Helix HX8 engine oil Apr 27, 2018 Royal Dutch Shell subsidiary Shell Lubricants' Indian arm on Monday launched its fully synthetic engine oil - Shell Helix HX8 - saying it is suitable for all cars in the country including SUVs, hatchbacks, sedans and MUVs. News and Media Releases 2022 Media releases published in 2022 by Shell in India. News and Media Releases 2021 Media releases published in 2021 by Shell in India. News and Media Releases 2020 Media releases published in 2020 by Shell in India News and Media Releases 2019 Media releases published in 2019 by Shell in India News and Media Releases 2018 Media releases published in 2018 by Shell in India News and Media Releases 2017 Media releases published in 2017 by Shell in India News and Media Releases 2022Media releases published in 2022 by Shell in India. Shell plans to install over 10,000 charging points across India by 2030 Sep 15, 2022 National: Shell launched its first electric vehicle (EV) chargers in India, for the four-wheeler and two-wheeler segments in Bengaluru today. India is the first market for Shell to launch chargers for two-wheelers. The company plans to set up more than 10,000 charging points across India by 2030 and aims to provide safe, green, and integrated mobility solutions to its customers through the Shell Recharge Stations. The power on the Shell Recharge chargers is 100% green energy. Shell completes acquisition of renewables platform Sprng Energy group Aug 09, 2022 Shell Overseas Investment B.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Shell plc (Shell), has completed its 100% acquisition of Solenergi Power Private Limited and with it, the Sprng Energy group of companies from Actis Solenergi Limited (Actis). Shell launches used oil management service, as a move towards sustainable business practices Jun 28, 2022 National: Shell today launched a used oil management service, a new initiative to organise India’s waste oil disposal system and to increase the rate of re-refining, as it aims to achieve circular economy goals while reducing waste. This is part of Shell’s overall commitment to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. As part of the initiative, Shell has partnered with used oil re-refiners to initiate collection and re-refining of used oil on a pan India basis. These partners share the vision of driving circular economy for the lubricants industry. Shell ushers in a new age of fluid reliability and digital solutions at EXCON 2022 May 20, 2022 National: Shell, the world leader in finished lubricants, recently showcased its complete range of digital and fluid reliability solutions at EXCON 2022. Shell was present across two stalls at the event, featuring its full range of construction and mining products, services, and digital solutions. Shell to acquire Sprng Energy group, one of India’s leading renewable power platforms Apr 29, 2022 Shell Overseas Investment B.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Shell plc (Shell), today signed an agreement with Actis Solenergi Limited (Actis) to acquire 100% of Solenergi Power Private Limited for $1.55 billion and with it, the Sprng Energy group of companies. Shell India unveils the new Shell Advance Fuel Save10W30’, to deliver enhanced fuel economy Apr 19, 2022 National: Shell, the global market share leader in finished lubricants, has launched the Shell Advance Fuel Save 10W-30 at a large virtual event, in the presence of consumers and trade partners. Shell India celebrates women who #BreaktheBias, this Women’s Day Mar 08, 2022 National: Energy and mobility solutions leader Shell is celebrating this Women’s Day by bringing forth commendable stories and acknowledging women who are forging a world free of bias, stereotypes, and discrimination. Chairpersons Report - Meetings of the Equity Shareholders Mar 07, 2022 Report of Result of Meeting By Chairperson Notice convening meeting of Equity Shareholders Jan 31, 2022 Notice of the Meeting of the Equity Shareholders as per the Order of the Hon'ble National Company Law Tribunal, New Delhi Bench. Notice convening meeting of Equity Shareholders Jan 31, 2022 Notice of the Meeting of the Equity Shareholders as per the Order of the Hon'ble National Company Law Tribunal, New Delhi Bench. Notice convening meeting of Equity Shareholders of BG India Energy Solutions Private Limited. Notice convening meeting of Equity Shareholders of BG LNG Regas India Private Limited. Notice convening meeting of Equity Shareholders of BG India Energy Services Private Limited. Notice convening meeting of Equity Shareholders of BG India Energy Private Limited. Chairpersons Report - Meetings of the Equity Shareholders Mar 07, 2022 Report of Result of Meeting By Chairperson Read more about Chairperson Report - FTC Read more about Chairperson Report - STC Read more about Chairperson Report - Transferee C Read more about Chairperson Report - TTC Shell India celebrates women who #BreaktheBias, this Women’s Day Mar 08, 2022 National: Energy and mobility solutions leader Shell is celebrating this Women’s Day by bringing forth commendable stories and acknowledging women who are forging a world free of bias, stereotypes, and discrimination. The energy giant has locally partnered with GO DESi to provide special giveaways to women customers who visit Shell retail stations on International Women’s Day on first come first serve basis. This comes in line with Shell’s larger commitment to help and promote homegrown businesses rooted in empowering women. This homegrown brand supports 180+ women through direct farmer procurement and has generated employment in 12 villages across Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. To commemorate its strong women workforce, Shell has also released a video that showcases powerful stories about women who are breaking biases by taking up frontline roles that are stereotypically perceived to be male-oriented. The video highlights the journeys of three trailblazing women from Shell’s own retail forecourts and how they’ve become the sole breadwinners of their families whilst facing many challenges of being single working mothers. The core assertion of this feature video is to establish that women across the world, irrespective of social conditions, do not require pity, but a progressive and unbiased workplace that empowers them to break through glass ceilings. The video can be accessed here: <https://www.facebook.com/Shell/videos/347960263884366> Unlike a typical fuel retail forecourt dominated by men, Shell’s forecourts have close to 25%+ women participating in the workforce consistently across their country wide network. Shell is also focused in building a healthy and growth-oriented work environment to provide equal employment opportunities for women. Speaking about nurturing further women participation in the workforce, Mr. Sanjay Varkey, Director, Shell Mobility India, said, “The journey to establish a workplace that does not fall prey to preexisting societal biases for women is a long, but rewarding one. We at Shell believe in walking the talk and are committed to building a strong network where women are empowered to embrace all roles and support each other. It’s inspiring to see the indomitable spirit of our women forecourt champions and how they have overcome challenges. We are confident that these champions will inspire many others to Break the Bias”. Enquiries: Edelman India – Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India – Kashish Wadhwa; kashish.wadhwa@edelman.com; +91 9643037393 Notes To Editors Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam, Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Shell plc Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary Note The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, “milestones”, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell plc’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2020 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, 8th March 2022. Neither Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events, or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. The content of websites referred to in this press release does not form part of this press release We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell India unveils the new Shell Advance Fuel Save10W30’, to deliver enhanced fuel economy Apr 19, 2022 National: Shell, the global market share leader in finished lubricants, has launched the Shell Advance Fuel Save 10W-30 at a large virtual event, in the presence of consumers and trade partners. The new full synthetic product, Shell Advance Fuel Save 10W30 was launched during the virtual event – Shell Outriders Trail Shell Advance Fuel Save 10W30 is product that is expertly engineered to deliver an extra mileage of 5 km more per liter of fuel* Shell Advance Outriders Trail campaign will also give a chance to three lucky consumers to try out the Shell Advance Fuel Save 10W-30 lubricant in real conditions, along with India’s top bike influencers As the name suggests, the Shell Advance Fuel Save 10W30 is expertly engineered to enhance fuel economy and deliver monetary savings. The product provides savings of approx. Rs 2500 annually for daily riders who clock higher running hours/distance on the road. Consumers can ride an additional 5 kms per litre on same amount of fuel and minimize their running cost. The unveiling of the fuel save pack is a part of Shell’s larger customer centric campaign – Shell Advance Outriders Trail. The campaign is the extension of the brand’s promise to its bikers to relentlessly pursue their passion of biking, irrespective of the challenges, the pandemic related uncertainty and the changing world dynamics that have impacted fuel prices. This campaign not only honours bikers’ love for riding, but also rewards their spirit by giving a chance to three lucky bikers to try this new product themselves while riding with India’s top professional bikers. Speaking at its launch, Ms. Debanjali Sengupta, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India, said, As the world’s leading lubricants supplier, we are driven by market demand, detailed insights, and the commitment to deliver high quality products suited to our consumers’ evolving needs. This product is a solution for value conscious daily bike riders for whom mileage or reducing the running cost is an important consideration amidst rising fuel prices. At Shell, it’s our priority to reduce carbon emissions through sustainable solutions. Our new product, Fuel Save is expertly engineered to give extended fuel economy to our consumers and contribute to sustainability by reducing per km fuel consumption. Shell Advance Fuel Save is a superior fully synthetic product made of pure plus technology that brings cost economy by improving bike mileage to unleash the maximum potential of the bikes. The Shell Advance Outriders Trails campaign has been created to offer riders an avenue to share an exhilarating biking experience while using the Fuel Save product and allows them to share their experiences alongside celebrated influencers - Biker for Good, Story on Wheels and Gowtaman. Scheduled from May’22 onwards, the expedition will cover several popular trails including Delhi – Spiti, Thane – Malvan and Chennai – Himachal. With Shell’s global, cutting-edge formulation, Advance Fuel Save has been introduced in India in the 10W30 viscometrical grade, which meets highest specifications, including the American Petroleum Institute (API) SN and Japanese Automotive Standards Organization (JASO) – MA2 specifications.[1] The Shell Advance Fuel Save 10W-30[2], blended with the Shell PurePlus™ Technology-derived base oils (known as Gas-To-Liquid or GTL) is expertly engineered to give extra mileage of 5 km per litre fuel. Its molecules are uniformly sized and are easier to slide over when compared to conventional base oil with irregular dimensions. It is meant for customers who are daily riders with higher running hours on the road and need an engine oil that consumes less fuel and gives extra mileage. Its technology enables high temperature protection and no power loss at the end of 12000 kms. The product keeps pistons and engines clean and provides superior wear protection while retaining horsepower. Priced at MRP INR 670/litre, the lubricant is available in 1L packs across markets pan India. ENQUIRIES: Edelman India – Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India – Kashish Wadhwa; kashish.wadhwa@edelman.com; +91 9643037393 NOTES TO EDITORS Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam, Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Shell plc Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary Note The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this [report] “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this [report] refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This [report] contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, “milestones”, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this [report], including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this [report] are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell plc’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2020 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this [report] and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this [report], [insert date]. Neither Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this [report]. The content of websites referred to in this [report] does not form part of this [report]. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this [report] that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. 1https://rkpl.com.bd/product/shell-advance-fuel-save/ 1 Shell Advance Marketing Plan ppt *Recorded 5km¹ per litre more on a fleet of bikes after running 12,000 km, under realistic riding condition Shell to acquire Sprng Energy group, one of India’s leading renewable power platforms Apr 29, 2022 London: Shell Overseas Investment B.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Shell plc (Shell), today signed an agreement with Actis Solenergi Limited (Actis) to acquire 100% of Solenergi Power Private Limited for $1.55 billion and with it, the Sprng Energy group of companies. Sprng Energy supplies solar and wind power to electricity distribution companies in India. Its portfolio consists of 2.9 gigawatts-peak1 (GWp) of assets (2.1 GWp operating and 0.8 GWp contracted) with a further 7.5 GWp of renewable energy projects in the pipeline. “This deal positions Shell as one of the first movers in building a truly integrated energy transition business in India,” said Wael Sawan, Shell’s Integrated Gas, Renewables and Energy Solutions Director. “I believe it will enable Shell to become a leader across the power value chain in a rapidly growing market where electrification on a massive scale and strong demand for renewables are driving the energy transition. Sprng Energy generates cash, has an excellent team, strong and proven development track record and a healthy growth pipeline. Sprng Energy’s strengths can combine with Shell India’s thriving customer-facing gas and downstream businesses to create even more opportunities for growth.” The solar and wind assets Shell acquires through the deal will triple Shell’s present renewable capacity in operation and help deliver its Powering Progress strategy. An important part of Powering Progress is to develop a best-in-class integrated power business, which will help Shell to reach its target of becoming a profitable net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. The transaction is subject to regulatory clearance and is expected to close later in 2022. Notes to editors Solenergi Power Private Limited (“SPPL”) is incorporated in Mauritius and is the direct shareholder of the Sprng Energy group of companies in India. Sprng Energy will retain its existing brand and operate as a wholly owned subsidiary of Shell within Shell’s Renewables and Energy Solutions Integrated Power business. It is headquartered in Pune, India. For more, visit https://sprngenergy.com/. In India, Shell’s existing gas business (Shell Energy) serves customers through a fully-owned and integrated value chain – competitive supply from a global LNG portfolio, re-gasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. Shell has invested in companies like Husk Power Systems and Cleantech Solar Pte Ltd. For more, visit Shell India. Globally, Shell is investing in building our generation capacity. We have 1 GW of renewable generation capacity in operation, and a total of 4.7 GW in operation, under construction and/or committed for sale. We have a further 38 GW of renewable generation capacity in our pipeline of future projects. We have added to our renewable generation capabilities by acquiring Savion, a US-based solar and energy storage specialist; Solar-Konzept Italia, an Italian solar specialist; and WestWind, a wind specialist based in Australia. Shell is one of the leading developers of floating wind farms in the world with prototypes, pilot farms and commercial-scale projects in development in France, Ireland, Norway, Scotland and South Korea. For more, visit Energy Transition Progress Report 2021. In February 2021, Shell announced its Powering Progress strategy, including details of how it expects to achieve its target to be a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. For more, visit http://www.shell.com/poweringprogress. Actis is a leading global investor in sustainable infrastructure. For more, visit https://www.act.is/ Enquiries Media International: +44 207 934 5550 Media Americas: +1 832 337 4355 Media Asia Pacific: apac-media@shell.com Cautionary note The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. “Joint ventures” and “joint operations” are collectively referred to as “joint arrangements”. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. Forward-looking statements This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance, or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, “milestones”, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell plc’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2021 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release April 29, 2022. Neither Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. Shell’s Net Carbon Footprint Also, in this press release we may refer to Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” or “Net Carbon Intensity”, which include Shell’s carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production and our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the term Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” or “Net Carbon Intensity” are for convenience only and not intended to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries. Shell’s net-zero emissions target Shell’s operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a 10-year period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next 10 years. Accordingly, they reflect our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Net Carbon Footprint (NCF) targets over the next 10 years. However, Shell’s operating plans cannot reflect our 2050 net-zero emissions target and 2035 NCF target, as these targets are currently outside our planning period. In the future, as society moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell’s operating plans to reflect this movement. However, if society is not net zero in 2050, as of today, there would be significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. Forward-looking non-GAAP measures This press release may contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such as cash capital expenditure. We are unable to provide a reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to reconcile those non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies applied in Shell plc’s consolidated financial statements. The contents of websites referred to in this press release do not form part of this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. 1Equivalent to 2.3 gigawatts (GW) based on actual design of solar parks. Shell ushers in a new age of fluid reliability and digital solutions at EXCON 2022 May 20, 2022 National: Shell, the world leader in finished lubricants, recently showcased its complete range of digital and fluid reliability solutions at EXCON 2022. Shell was present across two stalls at the event, featuring its full range of construction and mining products, services, and digital solutions. The highlight of the event was an exclusive launch of Shell LubeOptimiser by Jaideep Shekhar, MD, Asia & EMEAR, Terex Materials Processing, and live dashboards of revolutionary telematics solutions Machine Max and Shell Remote Sense. Commenting on Shell’s range of products and services at EXCON, Debanjali Sengupta, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India, said, “Unlocking value for our partners, OEMs, and end consumers is at the heart of our business, and we are proud to be consistently setting benchmarks for quality and performance. While we continue to offer best-in-class lubricants, our solutions are designed to help customers in running trouble-free operations and reducing the total cost of ownership both on-site and off-site. We have expanded our portfolio for construction and mining sectors and are looking to grow our fluid reliability and digital solutions multifold in 2022”. Shell’s fluid reliability solutions help customers address their lubrication-related challenges such as removal of contamination, water, varnish, etc. The absence of proper treatment of lubricants can significantly impact the cost of operation and maintenance and increase downtime due to unwanted failures. Shell LubeOptimiser is Shell’s latest fluid reliability solution designed to simplify operations, reduce downtime, and protect equipment. Shell also showcased a live dashboard of cutting-edge sensor-based digital solutions, MachineMax and Remote Sense. While MachineMax helps companies to maximize the profitability and efficiency of their off-highway fleets using intelligent sensors and next-generation analytics; Shell Remote Sense is an elite remote condition monitoring service which uses oil sensors, data science and analytics to deliver actionable insights to customers on the condition of lubricants and equipment on a real-time basis. Shell Remote Sense’s predictive capabilities can help customers avoid unplanned stoppages or breakdowns. Through its range of solutions and robust portfolio, Shell demonstrated how customers can tap into the hidden potential in operations to reduce the total cost of ownership and unlock substantial savings in both construction and mining sectors. Shell’s pavilions at EXCON were inaugurated by esteemed guests, Deepak Shetty, CEO and MD, JCB India, and Senthil Kumar, MD, Propel Industries Private Limited. The display also included proven solutions of Shell Rimula R5 LE engine oil which offers more than 1% fuel saving with extended oil drain intervals, and Shell Gadus S3 V460D 2 heavy-duty grease, which has demonstrated savings of more than INR 30 crores equivalent globally, optimised grease consumption and increased grease and component life over the years. Another key feature of Shell’s presence at EXCON was its waste oil management solution which will help customers achieve their compliance and sustainability goals. Some of the key highlights at Shell’s pavilion at EXCON included: Reliability solutions: Shell LubeOptimiser (fluid reliability solutions) Shell LubeAnalyst (oil analysis solution) Shell LubeExpert (equipment inspections and monitoring) Sensor based digital solutions: MachineMax (equipment telematics) Shell Remote Sense (live oil condition monitoring) Alternative energy and sustainability solutions: Waste oil management: responsible disposal of oil waste Solar: Solar energy solutions to reduce energy bills and carbon footprint LNG: LNG fuel supply to customers Advanced products Shell Rimula R5 LE engine oils (extended oil life and fuel saving of more than 1%) Shell Gadus S3 heavy duty greases (extended grease and component life) Shell Tellus S2/S3 hydraulic oils (longer oil life and superior pump protection) The full range of B2B lubricants solutions offered by Shell can be accessed here. Enquiries: SIMPL-india-media@shell.com Notes to editors Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam, Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Shell plc Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary Note The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this [report] “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this [report] refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This [report] contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, “milestones”, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this [report], including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this [report] are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell plc’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2020 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this [report] and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this [report], [20th May, 2022]. Neither Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this [report]. The content of websites referred to in this [report] does not form part of this [report]. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this [report] that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell launches used oil management service, as a move towards sustainable business practices Jun 28, 2022 National: Shell today launched a used oil management service, a new initiative to organise India’s waste oil disposal system and to increase the rate of re-refining, as it aims to achieve circular economy goals while reducing waste. This is part of Shell’s overall commitment to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. As part of the initiative, Shell has partnered with used oil re-refiners to initiate collection and re-refining of used oil on a pan India basis. These partners share the vision of driving circular economy for the lubricants industry. Shell plans to strengthen its network of partners to further scale-up the initiative in the coming years. The service aims to create an ecosystem for transitioning used oil disposal, which is acknowledged as being the biggest challenge in promoting circularity in the industry, to a formal setup. Shell intends to create awareness about best practices for waste oil management and help set standards for RRBO in collaboration with re refiners and industrial partners. Speaking at the launch, Ms. Mansi Tripathy, Vice President, Shell Lubricants Asia Pacific, said, “Used oil management service is the latest testament of how we are leading the process of reducing waste alongside the industry’s larger environmental footprint in India. We aim to play a pivotal role to embed circular economy in lubricants and see a high growth potential for this service to reduce waste and thereby, reduce our overall emissions. We will continue to seek opportunities to support our customers in reducing their emissions via our products and services.” “Being a solutions-driven, customer centric organization is at the core of our business model. This initiative reinforces that value and will help us support our customers with a more holistic value proposition that goes beyond lubricants. Even more significant is the fact that we now have the opportunity to pioneer towards the first step towards circular economy”, added Ms. Debanjali Sengupta, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India. Used oil has been categorized as hazardous waste and contains harmful metals. One litre of used oil can contaminate one million litres of freshwater . Without proper disposal procedures in place, 50% of all lubricants end up in the environment. India witnesses the generation of ~1.3 million tons of used oil annually of which, less than 15% is re-refined. Used lubricating oil is a hazardous waste which is disposed for various uses, with fuel being by far the most common method in India. Burning of used oil leads to harmful gas emissions, increasing health and safety risks. Re-refining used oil would help in: Conserving natural resources Reducing the emissions related to end-of life of the lubricants, helping India meet its carbon neutral targets Notes to editors Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 10000 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam, Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Shell plc Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Enquiries: Edelman India Jayashree Basu jayashree.basu@edelman.com +91 9650508648 Edelman India Kashish Wadhwa kashish.wadhwa@edelman.com +91 9643037393 Cautionary Note The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this [press release] “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this [press release] refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. “Joint ventures” and “joint operations” are collectively referred to as “joint arrangements”. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. Forward-looking statements This [press release] contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, “milestones”, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this [press release], including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this [press release] are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell plc’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2021 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this [press release] and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this [press release], [28th June, 2022]. Neither Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this [press release]. Shell’s net carbon footprint Also, in this [report] we may refer to Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” or “Net Carbon Intensity”, which include Shell’s carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production and our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the term Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” or “Net Carbon Intensity” are for convenience only and not intended to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries. Shell’s net-zero emissions target Shell’s operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a ten-year period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next ten years. Accordingly, they reflect our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Net Carbon Footprint (NCF) targets over the next ten years. However, Shell’s operating plans cannot reflect our 2050 net-zero emissions target and 2035 NCF target, as these targets are currently outside our planning period. In the future, as society moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell’s operating plans to reflect this movement. However, if society is not net zero in 2050, as of today, there would be significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. Forward-looking non-GAAP measures This [press release] may contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such as [cash capital expenditure] and [divestments]. We are unable to provide a reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to reconcile those non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies applied in Shell plc’s consolidated financial statements. The contents of websites referred to in this [press release] do not form part of this [press release]. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this [press release] that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. 1 Managing, Reusing, and Recycling Used Oil | US EPA Shell completes acquisition of renewables platform Sprng Energy group Aug 09, 2022 Shell Overseas Investment B.V., a wholly owned subsidiary of Shell plc (Shell), has completed its 100% acquisition of Solenergi Power Private Limited and with it, the Sprng Energy group of companies from Actis Solenergi Limited (Actis). Sprng Energy, set up in 2017 by Actis, is a renewable energy platform based in Pune, India, and develops and manages renewable energy facilities such as solar and wind farms and infrastructure assets. The solar and wind assets Shell acquires through the deal will triple Shell’s present renewable capacity in operation and help deliver its Powering Progress strategy. An important part of Powering Progress is to develop an integrated power business, which will help Shell reach its target of becoming a profitable net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. Notes to editors On April 29, 2022, Shell announced the signing of an agreement to purchase Solenergi Power Private Limited and the Sprng Group of Companies. Subject to closing adjustments, about half of the previously announced transaction value ($1.55 billion) will be reported as cash capex and the remainder assumed as debt obligations. In February 2021, Shell announced its Powering Progress strategy, including details of how it expects to achieve its target to be a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. For more, visit http://www.shell.com/poweringprogress. Actis is a leading global investor in sustainable infrastructure. For more, visit https://www.act.is/ Enquiries Media International: +44 207 934 5550 Media Asia Pacific: apac-media@shell.com Cautionary note The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement, “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. “Joint ventures” and “joint operations” are collectively referred to as “joint arrangements”. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. Forward-Looking Statements This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, “milestones”, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell plc’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2021 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, August 9, 2022. Neither Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. Shell’s net carbon footprint Also, in this announcement we may refer to Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” or “Net Carbon Intensity”, which include Shell’s carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production and our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the term Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” or “Net Carbon Intensity” are for convenience only and not intended to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries. Shell’s net-Zero Emissions Target Shell’s operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a ten-year period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next ten years. Accordingly, they reflect our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Net Carbon Footprint (NCF) targets over the next ten years. However, Shell’s operating plans cannot reflect our 2050 net-zero emissions target and 2035 NCF target, as these targets are currently outside our planning period. In the future, as society moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell’s operating plans to reflect this movement. However, if society is not net zero in 2050, as of today, there would be significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. Forward Looking Non-GAAP measures This announcement may contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such as cash capital investments. We are unable to provide a reconciliation of these forward-looking Non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to reconcile those Non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies applied in Shell plc’s consolidated financial statements. The contents of websites referred to in this announcement do not form part of this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell plans to install over 10,000 charging points across India by 2030 Sep 15, 2022 National: Shell launched its first electric vehicle (EV) chargers in India, for the four-wheeler and two-wheeler segments in Bengaluru today. India is the first market for Shell to launch chargers for two-wheelers. The company plans to set up more than 10,000 charging points across India by 2030 and aims to provide safe, green, and integrated mobility solutions to its customers through the Shell Recharge Stations. The power on the Shell Recharge chargers is 100% green energy[1] In the first phase of its launch, Shell plans to set up charging stations in Bengaluru across its fuel stations located in Yeshwantpur, Marathalli, Old Madras Road, Brookefield and Kanakpura. The company has plans to expand its EV charging infrastructure beyond its existing retail markets of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana, Assam, Andhra Pradesh. Shell will provide customized charging solutions at on-the-go locations such as Shell fuel stations, standalone EV hubs, home charging and destination locations. For on-the-go and standalone EV hubs, the company will deploy 100 kilowatts (KW) and above direct-current (DC) fast chargers to enable fast charging and the lowest possible dwell time. Customers will be able to operate these chargers through the ‘Shell Recharge India app’, available on both Android and iOS operating systems. The app provides a hassle-free, reliable EV charging experience to customers, allowing them to locate the nearest available charger, pick a charging method - by unit, time or by percentage and then make quick payments. Customers can also view their charging status on a real-time basis. Shell has a full product range of hardware solutions for different cases, such as providing capabilities around: Simultaneous charging and cable connector configuration strategy – to increase the Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment utilization and improve investment efficiency Modular designs enabling capabilities around upgrades Reliability and operation excellence ensuring higher uptime Commenting on the launch, Sanjay Varkey, Director, Shell Mobility, India, said, “Being a solution-driven and customer-centric organization, we have developed a world-class offering for the electric-mobility customers drawing upon our global expertise and capabilities. The Shell Recharge proposition is based on unique insights that we picked up in our research and global experience. This enables us to provide safe, green, and integrated mobility solutions to our customers. We are excited to contribute to the electrification of mobility in India by rolling out the Shell Recharge network and look forward to serve the rapidly evolving needs of our customers.” Enquiries Edelman India – Kashish Wadhwa; kashish.wadhwa@edelman.com; +91 9643037393 Notes to editors Shell is one of the most diversified international energy companies in India with over 10000 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam, Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centres and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon, and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Cautionary note The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement, “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. “Joint ventures” and “joint operations” are collectively referred to as “joint arrangements”. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. Forward-Looking Statements This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, “milestones”, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell plc’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2021 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, September 15, 2022. Neither Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. Shell’s net carbon footprint Also, in this announcement we may refer to Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” or “Net Carbon Intensity”, which include Shell’s carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production and our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the term Shell’s “Net Carbon Footprint” or “Net Carbon Intensity” are for convenience only and not intended to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries. Shell’s net-Zero Emissions Target Shell’s operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a ten-year period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next ten years. Accordingly, they reflect our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Net Carbon Footprint (NCF) targets over the next ten years. However, Shell’s operating plans cannot reflect our 2050 net-zero emissions target and 2035 NCF target, as these targets are currently outside our planning period. In the future, as society moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell’s operating plans to reflect this movement. However, if society is not net zero in 2050, as of today, there would be significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. Forward Looking Non-GAAP measures This announcement may contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such as cash capital expenditure and divestments. We are unable to provide a reconciliation of these forward-looking Non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to reconcile those Non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies applied in Shell plc’s consolidated financial statements. The contents of websites referred to in this announcement do not form part of this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. [1] All electricity Shell purchases to supply at the Shell Recharge sites, is matched with equivalent amount of units of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) from 100% renewable sources. News and Media Releases 2021Media releases published in 2021 by Shell in India. Shell India recognized as an ‘Exemplar of Inclusion’ by Working Mother and Avtar Nov 23, 2021 Wins the “Best Companies for Women in India 2021” award for the fourth time for its progressive women-centric policies and well-balanced, equitable, inclusive work culture Shell launches next phase of DriveSafeIndia program covering one lakh drivers by March 2022 Oct 13, 2021 Shell’s #DriveSafeIndia Program, launched in February 2019, has screened more than 2.6 lakh drivers and has been able to address vision issues of approx.1.75 lakh by providing them free pairs of spectacles. The programme has also been awarded the coveted Prince Michael International Road Safety Award for its outstanding contribution to Road Safety in 2019. Battling air pollution Sep 13, 2021 Indian cities are some of the most polluted in the world. Almost two million people die prematurely due to air pollution in India. Clean Energy Boost will not impact economy Aug 03, 2021 India can develop a robust economy and deliver a just energy transition. The vulnerable are most at risk from climate change. India’s team Averera beats more than 200 other teams as first 2021 Shell Eco-marathon Virtual League Champion Aug 03, 2021 National - The first Shell Eco-marathon Virtual League concluded with an exciting win by Team AVERERA from Indian Institute of Technology BHU, India. Shell Launches ‘Digital Track’ For Start-ups Under its E⁴ Programme Jul 07, 2021 National - Shell announces the launch of their “Digital track” under its flagship start-up incubation program - Shell E4. E4 will collaborate with technology, venture, government, academia partners, eminent coaches & industry expert mentors to enable digital start-ups to achieve industry readiness and implement strategies for scaling & global expansion in the Industrial & Energy verticals. The Digital Track is built for mature, digital start-ups, that are simplifying some of the most crucial problems across sectors that require rapid automation to become more energy efficient. Net zero emissions in India’s energy system by 2050 technologically possible but highly challenging Mar 23, 2021 A recent modelling report jointly undertaken by TERI and Shell maps out an illustrative technological pathway for India’s domestic energy system to move towards net-zero emissions by 2050, while delivering sustainable economic growth. Shell India celebrates and inspires India’s dreamers with the launch of its latest campaign ‘Great Things Happen When We Move’ Mar 04, 2021 Showcases inspiring real-life stories to encourage women to keep moving and chase their dreams for a better future ahead of International Women’s Day Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan Inaugurates Shell energy India’s truck loading unit Jan 19, 2021 Supplying LNG via trucks to enhance access to cleaner energy. Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan Inaugurates Shell energy India’s truck loading unit Jan 19, 2021 Supplying LNG via trucks to enhance access to cleaner energy. National - Hon’ble Minister for Petroleum, Natural Gas and Steel Shri Dharmendra Pradhan today virtually inaugurated Shell Energy India’s first small-scale LNG supply infrastructure, a truck loading unit at its LNG terminal in Hazira. This will now augment Shell’s natural gas supply offerings in India to include supply of LNG via trucks. Speaking on the occasion, Minister Pradhan complimented Shell for their efforts in expanding the LNG infrastructure in the country. He said, “Clean, affordable and reliable energy is the need of the growing population and a key priority for the Government of India.” He further added “The Government is committed to bring in a clean energy future whilst reducing the adverse impact on the environment. Innovative supply solutions like LNG by trucks will play a pivotal role in the development of gas markets across the country including hinterlands. This infrastructure will also help support in the development of LNG as a clean transportation fuel.” Nakul Raheja, who has recently taken over as Country Head, Shell Energy India stated “In early 2019, we acquired additional 26% equity in the Hazira Terminal and created a fully-owned and integrated Shell value chain - supply from our global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. This development extends our downstream customer offering and now, in addition to supply of R-LNG via pipeline, we can also supply LNG by trucks to customers across India. I look forward to this segment advancing in the years ahead and hope to also see LNG developing as a cleaner energy option for heavy duty transport in India.” The Government of India is promoting natural gas through various policy and regulatory reforms towards making India a gas-based economy by increasing the share of gas in India’s primary energy mix to 15 percent. Small-scale LNG can play an important role in realizing this target as it enhances clean energy access across the country. While gas customers in industrial clusters are expected to be the primary beneficiaries, small-scale LNG will also support the market seeding and development of the recently licensed CGD geographical areas, not yet connected by pipelines. Apart from industrial and CGD segments, the small-scale LNG supply infrastructure will also contribute to the development of conducive eco-system for faster adoption of LNG as the preferred transportation fuel for M&HCVs especially for long-haul transport. Shell Energy India owns and operates a 5 mtpa LNG import terminal at Hazira (Surat), Gujarat. The terminal has been in operation since 2005 and received more than 600 LNG cargoes till date. Shell Energy is our global offer to market for innovative, reliable and cleaner energy solutions across a portfolio of gas, power, environmental products and energy efficiency offers to businesses and residential customers. Enquiries: Shell – Priyanka Dube Country Media Manager Email - Priyanka.Dube@shell.com Notes to editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, January 19, 2021. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Net zero emissions in India’s energy system by 2050 technologically possible but highly challenging Mar 23, 2021 A recent modelling report jointly undertaken by TERI and Shell maps out an illustrative technological pathway for India’s domestic energy system to move towards net-zero emissions by 2050, while delivering sustainable economic growth. New Delhi : Energy is at the heart of development and India has high aspirations as it strives to create a better life for its population of almost 1.4 billion people. But how can India accomplish this and make progress towards reaching a net-zero emissions economy by 2050 in support of broader well-being? To reach a net-zero emissions energy system by 2050, India needs a suitable policy and innovation driven context to deploy clean energy technologies on a massive scale. It requires more and faster deployment of large-scale solar, wind and hydro power to enable greater electrification across the country. It also requires the development of new fuels, such as liquid biofuels and biogas, as well as hydrogen produced from electrolysis. Energy efficiency must improve significantly, and carbon removals (from technology and nature-based solutions) will have a critical role in moving towards zero emissions. These are the key insights from a new scenario sketch by TERI and Shell, that has assessed India’s technology and policy options if it were to accelerate its transition to a net zero emissions energy system by 2050. Today, India has opportunities to chart out its own unique development pathway rather than take up fossil-fuel driven paths previously pursued by developed economies. At the same time, it will be important for India to ensure that its energy pathway is socially inclusive, economically viable and ensures long term sustainability of resources. Speaking at the launch of the report, India: Transforming to a net-zero emissions energy system, Mr. Amitabh Kant, CEO of the NITI Aayog said, “I’m really pleased to participate in the launch of this very important study on transforming India to a Net Zero emissions energy system which I believe is a step towards pursuing the goal of achieving cleaner energy transition and spearheading discussions amongst policy makers, knowledge partners and think tanks. With its geographic advantage and availability of vast potential, not only can India materialize its renewable potential, it can also become a global leader to showcase its green energy pathways. This is the right time for India to think in this direction of net-zero emissions by 2050” Speaking on the occasion, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said “Building on many years of collaboration in the work related to the Indian energy sector and its transition, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) and Shell have partnered to present a Scenario Sketch for India outlining the options and choices towards developing a technically possible though challenging net-zero energy system for India. The challenge actually provides an opportunity for India to embed sustainability principles while achieving its developmental priorities – and minimise the risk of stranded investment in high emitting infrastructure. This approach has important implications in accelerating economic growth, local manufacturing, job creation and energy security.” "The energy sector alone does not have enough choices with the technologies available today to achieve net-zero by 2050. The industry sector, in particular, lacks technological solutions. Additional options for sequestration through nature-based solutions and CCS/CCUS would need to be adopted if net-zero were to be achieved by 2050" added Dr. Ritu Mathur, Director, Integrated Assessments & Modelling at The Energy & Resources Institute (TERI). Given announcements made by a number of countries about their net zero emission targets, this report assumes significance as it is one of the first assessments of the challenges that India would face if India were to move towards such a pathway. India: Transforming to a net-zero emissions energy system indicates that the transformations needed over the next thirty years for India, in pursuit of this goal by mid-century would consist of the following areas of action: Accelerate clean technologies Grow the power sector by a factor of more than four in 30 years, dominated by renewables (around 90%) Target 13% hydrogen in final energy, including as a fuel for industry and transport Transform bioenergy, with liquid biofuels surpassing petroleum products by 2040 to fuel industry and transport, including hard-to-abate sectors such as aviation Support energy-efficient and lower-carbon choices Invest in processes, technologies and end uses to improve energy intensity per unit of GDP by almost 60% by 2050, a rate of improvement nearly twice historical levels Adopt economic mechanisms, such as carbon trading and/or pricing to facilitate reallocation of capital and resources to support commercialization of new fuels and technologies Remove carbon emissions Resort to carbon sequestration to an extent of around 1.3 Gt CO2, using nature-based solutions and /or carbon capture and storage (CCS)to achieve net zero emissions by 2050 The report adds that success in achieving the net zero emissions goal will depend on clear and coherent policies at the national and sub national level. It suggests that the economic and social impact of the transition will need to be understood and managed, and a well-designed policy framework will be required to contain the overall macroeconomic costs; address transition impacts and ensure more resilient and environmentally just outcomes for the most vulnerable and underserved communities. Full report available here - www.shell.in/Indiasketch Enquiries: TERI - Aastha Manocha Email - aastha.manocha@teri.res.in Shell – Priyanka Dube Country Media Manager Email - Priyanka.Dube@shell.com; Notes to editors About TERI: The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) is an independent, multi-dimensional organisation, with capabilities in research, policy, consultancy and implementation. It has pioneered conversations and action in the energy, environment, climate change, and sustainability space for over four decades. The institute's research and research-based solutions have had a transformative impact on industry and communities. Headquartered in New Delhi, it has regional centres and campuses in Gurugram, Bengaluru, Guwahati, Mumbai, Panaji, and Nainital, supported by a multi-disciplinary team of scientists, sociologists, economists and engineers, and state-of-the-art infrastructure. About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. India sketch: Legal disclaimer In developing this scenario sketch, TERI and Shell have adopted a goal-oriented approach towards achieving net-zero emissions from the energy sector in India by 2050. It is rooted in stretching but realistic development dynamics today, but explores a goal-oriented way to achieve that ambition. We worked back in designing how this could occur, considering the realities of the situation today and taking into account realistic timescales for change. Although ambitious in its goal and assumptions, we believe today it is still a technically possible, but highly challenging pathway for the Indian economy. However, we believe the window for success is quickly closing and without significant action it may take longer for India to achieve a net-zero energy system. Of course, there are other possible paths for India to take towards a net-zero energy system – these depend on the technologies and policies the country prioritises. This scenario sketch is more ambitious in its goal and assumptions than Shell’s Sky 1.5 scenario in some respects, but not all. For example, the India NZE scenario is more ambitious on the 2050 emissions profile of the energy system, but less ambitious on the role of CCS. Shell believes different places and sectors will move towards net-zero emissions at different paces, and all should move as fast as possible for society to achieve the goal of the Paris Agreement. This scenario sketch is not intended to be projections or forecasts of the future. Shell scenarios, including scenarios in this document, are not Shell’s strategy or business plan. When developing Shell’s strategy, our scenarios are one of many variables that we consider. Ultimately, whether society meets its goals to decarbonize, is not within Shell’s control. While we intend to travel this journey in step with society, only governments can create the framework for success. The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this content “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this content refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. Shell’s operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a ten-year period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next ten years. Accordingly, Shell’s operating plans, outlooks, budgets and pricing assumptions do not reflect our net-zero emissions target. In the future, as society moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell’s operating plans, outlooks, budgets and pricing assumptions to reflect this movement. This content contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this content, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this content are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this content and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this content, March 23, 2021. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this content. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this content that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell Launches ‘Digital Track’ For Start-ups Under its E⁴ Programme Jul 07, 2021 9 start-ups selected for the 2021 edition Shell announces the launch of their “Digital track” under its flagship start-up incubation program - Shell E4. E4 will collaborate with technology, venture, government, academia partners, eminent coaches & industry expert mentors to enable digital start-ups to achieve industry readiness and implement strategies for scaling & global expansion in the Industrial & Energy verticals. The Digital Track is built for mature, digital start-ups, that are simplifying some of the most crucial problems across sectors that require rapid automation to become more energy efficient. Partners on board for this track are Tata steel, AVL, Last mile Ventures, IBM, Intel, EPRI, AWS & Maharashtra State Innovation Society to name a few. This collaboration brings together the best minds from across verticals into one synergized hub providing opportunities for: Solution maturity & market readiness Acquiring industry expertise Increasing potential customer base & scaling up Potential international expansion Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “Digitization could play a key role in supporting the country’s sustainable development by offering better efficiencies with much lower energy consumption. We are delighted to welcome the newest batch of start-ups to the Digital Track of our flagship E4 Programme. Since conception, E4 has been evolving to foster innovation in diversified fields like mobility, clean technology, logistics and now digital solutions. This decade has witnessed the acceleration of digitalisation and new energy transition, and Shell E4 will facilitate this with a focus across a full range of digital themes. We’re certain that these young leaders will gain considerable benefits from this experience and will be instrumental in powering India’s progress towards a cleaner energy future.” After careful scrutinization and several rounds of evaluations, 9 start-ups have been selected to form a part of the Shell E4 Digital Track. Airpix, 3Rdi, Cognitensor & Pradjna bring in exceptional AI/ ML enabled innovative solutions, to labour-intensive processes like asset surveying, inventory management and evaluation of technical skills. XYMA Analytics, Embedsense, Exactspace & Planys provide unique, cutting edge IoT & AI driven solutions focused on surveying, inspection, & energy efficiency in industrial processes. Spareit works towards bridging gaps between customers and workshops in the automotive aftermarket space, through SaaS based solutions enabling convenience for customers and productivity for service providers. As a part of the Digital track the start-ups will have access to Shell’s IT infrastructure, resources, expertise, and an invaluable network of partners & investors. Through this, the start-ups will be incubated & nurtured at each of their levels of progress to enable them to further develop their smart and sustainable technologies and showcase them for utilization on a global scale. Debasis Goswami, General Manager, Shell E4 Startup Innovation Hub added, “ I am excited to welcome the latest group of start-ups joining the Shell E4 program as we work with our partners to accelerate India's energy transition journey and contribute to the growing clean energy ecosystem in the country. The Shell E4 Digital track is a multi-partner program for digital start-ups intended to fast track industry solution maturation towards global market adoption, achieve enterprise readiness, potential industry deployments and access to international markets. The start-ups will benefit from a curated network of industry experts & advisors leveraging Shell and our Partners’ global reach.” Shell E4 continues to bring corporate synergies into the start-up ecosystem to enable remarkable entrepreneurs take their solutions across the world. Collectively they pave the way towards a cleaner, safer and smarter energy future. Enquiries: Shell – Priyanka Dube Country Media Manager Email - Priyanka.Dube@shell.com; Notes to editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, July 07, 2021. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. India’s team Averera beats more than 200 other teams as first 2021 Shell Eco-marathon Virtual League Champion Aug 03, 2021 National - The first Shell Eco-marathon Virtual League concluded with an exciting win by Team AVERERA from Indian Institute of Technology BHU, India. The team was declared the Virtual League Champion, having garnered 1,498 points, the most throughout this 2021 season. In second place was Team Green Team Twente from University of Twente, Netherlands with 1,421 points, and in third place was Team DTU SUPERMILEAGE from Delhi Technological University, India, with 1,296 points. The Virtual League required teams to earn points across five different challenges, including the well-known Off-track Awards and the new Autonomous Programming Competition, with each counting towards the team standings in a global ranking. An entirely virtual format did not dissuade students from stepping up their game to compete and celebrate innovation among teams across the world. Sweekar Banthiya, Team Manager, Team Averera, said, “We are thrilled to have been named champions at the Shell Eco-marathon virtual global league. Working through the pandemic was quite an exceptional challenge. We had to leave all the physical work on the vehicle, wrap up and head to our respective homes. But we completely restructured our plans to continue work remotely. As a team, it was the innovation, persistence and passion that drove us to victory. And this acknowledgement, is motivation to do even better.” A second bonus challenge introduced this year was Road to 2050, where teams were asked to creatively capture in a 30-sec ad what mobility should look like in their future. Team ETA from Somaiya Vidyavihar University, India, won first place in the Road to 2050 for Asia Pac and the Middle East, with their imaginative depiction of a futuristic vehicle that showcased a range of possible mobility solutions and ideas. Team Sadewa from Universitas Indonesia, and De La Salle University Eco Car Team, from De La Salle University, Philippines, garnered second and third place. The final challenge was the Virtual Technical Inspections, where teams demonstrated their vehicle’s compliance to a selection of rigorous safety and technical rules. Indian teams took top prizes across Asia Pac and the Middle East with Team ETA from Somaiya Vidyavihar University winning the Prototype category and Team AVERERA from Indian Institute of Technology BHU winning Urban Concept category. Both teams impressed the judges not only with their well-designed vehicles and effective use of various equipment, scales and rulers, but also making the technical content explanation interesting for a broader, non-technical audience. The winners were announced in a ceremony streamed on Shell Eco-marathon’s YouTube channel July 8, 2021, hosted by Shell Eco-marathon Global General Manager Norman Koch. Scuderia Ferrari Formula 1 Drivers Charles Leclerc and Carlos Sainz, Jr., as well as Shell Pennzoil NASCAR driver for Team Penske Joey Logano and Nissan e.dams Formula E driver Sebastien Buemi joined the online ceremony as special guests. “The creativity, resilience and determination of the students continue to astound us,” expressed Norman Koch, Global General Manager for Shell Eco-marathon. “Against the backdrop of the ongoing COVID-19 situation, they demonstrated their passion for winning and innovation through their hard work and delivering top-notch entries to all the virtual challenges. A Virtual Programme this year allowed us to honour the work the students have done and provide a continued opportunity to compete. We are, however, dedicated to finding a safe way back to the track for the 2022 Shell Eco-marathon season,” Koch explained. The Shell Eco-marathon 2021 Virtual Programme received submissions from 139 teams across 20 Asia Pacific and Middle East countries, with the pan-region receiving the most submissions in three of the five virtual competitions: Pitch the Future, Off-track Awards, and Road to 2050. Over the years, Shell Eco-marathon has seen thousands of high school and university students from across the world build ultra-energy-efficient vehicles, in a variety of designs, using a spectrum of energy types. Every year brings new stories of human endeavour and technical excellence, as teams push the boundaries of what’s possible. In these extraordinary times, Shell Eco-marathon continues to find ways to keep the spirit of innovation alive among its student participants. 2021 Shell Eco-marathon Asia Virtual League Winners Road to 2050 Bonus Challenge Asia Pacific and Middle East Winner: Team #128 ETA, Somaiya Vidyavihar University – India 1st Runner-up: Team #108 Sadewa, Universitas Indonesia – Indonesia 2nd Runner-up: Team #1015 De La Salle University Eco Car Team, De La Salle University – Philippines Virtual Technical Inspection Challenge Asia Pacific and Middle East – Prototype Winner: Team #128 ETA, Somaiya Vidyavihar University – India 1st Runner-up: Team #851 SEMAR PROTO UGM, Universitas Gadjah Mada – Indonesia 2nd Runner-up: Team #3360 Semeru Team I, Universitas Negeri Malang – Indonesia Asia Pacific and Middle East – Urban Concept Winner: Team #969 Team AVERERA, Indian Institute of Technology BHU – India 1st Runner-up: Team #1850 GARUDA UNY ECO TEAM, Universitas Negeri Yogyakarta – Indonesia 2nd Runner-up: Team #178 ITS Team Sapuangin, Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember – Indonesia Virtual League Top 6 Winners Winner: Team AVERERA, Indian Institute of Technology BHU – India 1st Runner-up: Team Green Team Twente, University of Twente – Netherlands 2nd Runner-up: Team DTU SUPERMILEAGE, Delhi Technological University – India 3rd Runner-up: Team ITS Team Sapuangin, Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember – Indonesia 4th Runner-up: Team Garuda Uny Eco, Universitas Negeri Yogyakarta – Indonesia 5th Runner-up: Team Ecocar UNICAMP, UNICAMP – Brazil Enquiries: Shell – Priyanka Dube Country Media Manager Email - Priyanka.Dube@shell.com Notes To Editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2020 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release,3rd August 2021. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this [report] that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Clean Energy Boost will not impact economy Aug 03, 2021 India can develop a robust economy and deliver a just energy transition. The vulnerable are most at risk from climate change. The setting up of new solar power plants is gaining momentum in the country. In February, a 700-MW plant was inaugurated in Tamil Nadu, another step in meeting the country’s updated ambition to reach 100 gigawatts of solar power by 2022. This reflects the rapid progress India is making towards meeting its commitments to the Paris Agreement on climate change. Today the dominant debate is more about whether the country can set and achieve a much greater ambition: becoming carbon neutral. Huge investment is needed to address air pollution and climate change. However, India’s twin goals of driving economic development and environmental sustainability are not in competition. A lower-carbon energy system, combined with universal access to energy, can drive growth in urban and rural areas through efficiencies and new opportunities. And, over time, decarbonisation efforts can mitigate the enormous cost of the impact of climate change. India is developing at a much higher level of energy efficiency, offering it an opportunity as a pathfinder in generating high growth with low emissions. But major challenges must be addressed. The country is rapidly developing and industrialising, and that will be inherently emissions-intensive if it follows the path previously taken by other leading economies. The auto push The auto industry is among the most important drivers of economic growth. Vehicle ownership in India is currently around a tenth that of many European countries but that will change rapidly as incomes rise. Electric vehicles are set to grow rapidly throughout the 2020s and by 2030 only electric vehicles will be sold. Buses, vans, and trucks follow. The growth in lower-carbon biofuels, commercially produced from biomass, and advanced biofuel technologies reduces remaining emissions from aviation. And high-speed rail running on renewable electricity mitigates domestic aviation growth. In tandem, new digital technologies and shared mobility systems help to create unique decarbonisation solutions. Today around three billion tonnes of steel are in use, in buildings, cars, appliances and industrial plants. Building steel infrastructure through coal could add some 24 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere globally and will add to local environmental stresses. Industry begins to transition to hydrogen which can be burned directly in furnaces and used to reduce iron ore in the steel sector. Delivering a green hydrogen economy will take time to develop and commercially deploy but the vision is materialising. In a recent Budget speech, the Finance Minister announced the 2021-22 launch of the National Hydrogen Energy Mission. Alongside new energy sources, hard-to-abate sectors highlight the need to deploy carbon sequestration options in the 2020s and India will need to evaluate the potential for carbon capture and storage and nature-based solutions. Developing new capabilities requires close collaboration across systems and pilot projects. And policy has a fundamental role to play through incentives and disincentives to accelerate technology development. And the government has a role to play in sharing the social and economic costs. As society expands electricity primarily from renewables, clear and decisive policy will be needed to deliver an upgraded electricity transmission network, to connect renewables-rich regions to where electricity is needed. The government will need to support early demonstration projects and commercial scale-up to deliver hydrogen and biofuels, to power hard-to-electrify sectors. At the same time, global investment is needed to push research and development to make alternative technologies commercially available at scale within the next few years. Above all, the transition to net-zero must be fair for all and requires well-designed policies to protect vulnerable and disadvantaged communities. Whether agricultural areas or coastal communities, they are most at risk from poor air quality and climate change and need greater access to reliable and affordable energy. Creating a net-zero emissions energy system by 2050 poses major challenges but it is possible. Harnessing its pioneering spirit and emerging opportunities, India can develop a robust economy and deliver a just energy transition. This would benefit Indians across our nation and create a vibrant example for countries around the world to follow. Article co-authored by Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India & Dr. Ritu Mathur, Director, Integrated Assessments and Modelling Division, TERI Source: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/profile/author/Nitin-Prasad-Ritu-Mathur-141976/ Battling air pollution Sep 13, 2021 Indian cities are some of the most polluted in the world. Almost two million people die prematurely due to air pollution in India. Solving this is crucial for economic growth Even as the country recovers from the second wave of Covid, it continues to face a serious air pollution crisis. While the government has taken positive steps to address the issue, with the launch of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) in 2020 and the allocation of ₹2,217 crore towards tackling air pollution in 2021, air pollution is still rising. A new report from Dalberg Advisors estimates that the Indian economy lost about 3 per cent of its GDP due to air pollution in 2019. Looking beyond the increase in healthcare expenses from pollution-related diseases, this number encompasses the multiple adverse effects of pollution on both the demand and supply sides of the economy. The costs of air pollution are too high to ignore. India has achieved some commendable milestones under the Paris Agreement goals of 2015. Businesses can use the wealth of evidence available to build an emission-free developmental environment. Climate change and air pollution are intimately linked because many of the underlying drivers are the same. Controlling fossil fuel combustion within the industrial processes will significantly contribute to both clean air action as well as climate change mitigation. IT firms’ initiatives to combat pollution through investments in hiring talent and developing better infrastructure may drive down cost competitiveness without solving for air pollution. For example, India’s 33 per cent cost advantage over the Philippines — another emerging Asian IT hub — could quickly be diminished as expenditure on air purifiers and other measures drive up the cost per worker. Air pollution is, therefore, eroding the circuitry in IT hardware at a faster rate. Still, it is also threatening to corrode Digital India’s competitive advantage. There are several steps that Indian businesses can take to curtail air pollution. While so far, the focus of most CSR has been on improving livelihoods, education, healthcare and women empowerment, adding air quality to the interventions can help bring a holistic approach. Furthermore, measuring the level of air pollution across the company’s supply chain and manufacturing operations can help keep a check on emissions. Collating data on key major pollutants emitting out of a company’s in-house processes will be crucial to monitor its carbon footprint. Promoting this practice also among vendors and suppliers can help spread a wider net to the priority of controlling air pollution. Lastly, communicating the importance of controlling the emission levels can help bring clarity on what the company is doing and ensure transparency. For a pollution-free future A pathway that tackles air pollution and climate change is crucial considering November’s COP26 , where countries will turn the focus on securing Net Zero by 2050. Covid lockdowns demonstrated that with action blue skies is possible for our cities and can have an almost immediate impact on air quality. We now have a unique opportunity to promote a green economy. We must find innovative ways to decouple economic growth from air pollution to create a healthier society and a more productive private sector. It is time to make clean air a reality through a coordinated effort by the government, the private sector, and civil society to achieve the ambitions of the NCAP to ensure a healthier, greener and more prosperous India. Article co-authored by Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India & TP Chopra, CEO and Founder, Clean Air Fund Source Battling air pollution - The Hindu BusinessLine Shell launches next phase of DriveSafeIndia program covering one lakh drivers by March 2022 Oct 13, 2021 New Delhi: Shell’s #DriveSafeIndia Program, launched in February 2019, has screened more than 2.6 lakh drivers and has been able to address vision issues of approx.1.75 lakh by providing them free pairs of spectacles. The programme has also been awarded the coveted Prince Michael International Road Safety Award for its outstanding contribution to Road Safety in 2019. Despite the pandemic, Shell continued the DriveSafeIndia program in line with government regulations and safety protocols. As part of their endeavor to continue keeping Indian roads safe, Shell has now roped in another partner, the India Vision Institute (an NGO providing access to vision testing and spectacles to the underprivileged in remote parts of India), to further expand the programme and vision testing camps in the states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. This year’s DriveSafe India program was officially launched in Chennai ahead of World Sight Day and aims to cover an additional 1.00 lakh drivers. Of this, eyecare needs of 50,000 commercial vehicle and truck drivers will be addressed in the Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and the remaining in other states. Sanjay Varkey, Director, Mobility, Shell India “At Shell, we believe road safety is imperative for all and the #DriveSafeIndia program is a step forward in the right direction. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are among the top 3 states with highest road accidents. We are therefore expanding our programme in these regions to reach even more drivers with the intention to improve driving performance and potentially preventing accidents” “IVI has experience of vision screening school children and adults, including commercial vehicle drivers and truckers. “The collaboration and synergy between the two organizations should help drive a strong program to address the vision problems of the trucking community,” said IVI’s CEO Vinod Daniel. “IVI works in 22 states across India to vision screen school children and adults, including drivers and allied transport workers,” Mr. Daniel noted. “We see the #DriveSafeIndia program as a great opportunity to address the issue of road safety. Drivers with better vision will lead to fewer road accidents, fatalities and unnecessary injuries,” he added. Mishaps and fatalities on roads are unfortunately frequent occurrences in India. With about 151,0001 on-road deaths reported each year across the country, boosting awareness on not only vehicle upkeep, but more importantly driver welfare, is an urgent imperative. A 2019 study report by the National Crime Records Bureau states that the number of road accidents reported in Tamil Nadu was 59,499, the highest among all states in India. Karnataka stood third with 40,666 cases. Notes To Editors Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2020 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, 13th October 2021. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this [report] that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. About India Vision Institute IVI is an Indian NGO working to provide access to primary eye care for underprivileged Indians and a pair of corrective glasses to those in need of one. IVI’s Eye See & I Work and Eye See & I Learn campaigns reach constituencies where services are lacking and most required – notably adults and children. IVI works in 22 states across India, including in screening commercial and truck drivers. October 2021 is also IVI’s tenth anniversary. Since its inception, it has undertaken over1,100 vision screening programs benefiting some 450,000 individuals from the underprivileged communities and provided free spectacles to those found to have refractive errors. Being in the frontline of vision care services delivery, optometrists receive IVI’s attention in having their skills upgraded and capacity built to cope with challenges in their careers. 1 https://www.statista.com/statistics/746887/india-number-of-fatalities-in-road-accidents/ Shell India recognized as an ‘Exemplar of Inclusion’ by Working Mother and Avtar Nov 23, 2021 Wins the “Best Companies for Women in India 2021” award for the fourth time for its progressive women-centric policies and well-balanced, equitable, inclusive work culture. National – Shell has been chosen for the “Exemplar of Inclusion” award in the third edition of Working Mother & Avtar Most Inclusive Companies Index (MICI). MICI is India's largest inclusion index, highlighting companies that go beyond gender inclusion and demonstrate inclusion at various other levels – generational, cultural, as well as for people with disabilities (PwDs) and members of the LGBTQIA community. Shell India has also been recognized, yet again, as the “Best Companies for Working Mother & Avtar Best Companies for Women in India” for the fourth time. The assessment is based on a survey conducted by the Working Mother and Avtar Group on sustained initiatives undertaken by Indian companies towards enabling and enhancing career progression for female employees. The “Top 100” list was announced at the “Best of the Best (BoB) Conference” – India’s largest DEI Conference – which was hosted virtually on November 18-19, 2021. Shell won recognition for its regular and fair administration, flexible policies, D&I championship at leadership levels, and gender sensitisation practices – all of which have contributed to a vibrant work culture in the company. The study ranked companies based on several parameters including flexible work, recruitment and retention, work-life programs, and safety. Shell India is characterized by a diverse, multicultural, multigenerational workforce comprising of multiple nationalities and representing over 30 skill pools including R&D; technology; operations; upstream; distribution; marketing of traditional and new energy solutions; as well as trade and supply of our energy offerings. Women presently account for close to 29% of the company’s workforce. Commenting on the award win, Pratibha Priyadarshini, Vice President & Head, Human Resources, Shell India, said, “At Shell, inclusion is about building a deep-rooted sense of belonging. It's about creating a culture where you are appreciated, and your opinions are heard. While becoming an inclusive organisation is an outcome of intense intent and hard work, sustaining it requires unflinching passion towards the larger goal of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. This award is a testament to our commitment towards embracing uniqueness and inclusion as a way of life” Shell aims to achieve gender balance right at the hiring stage. In 2020, 40% of the company’s campus hires were women. In addition to programs oriented at building inclusive leadership styles, the company also has several initiatives aimed at gender sensitisation that encourage employees to drive diversity, equity & inclusion within the organisation. Notes To Editors Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2020 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, 23 November 2021. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this [report] that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell India celebrates and inspires India’s dreamers with the launch of its latest campaign ‘Great Things Happen When We Move’ Mar 04, 2021 Showcases inspiring real-life stories to encourage women to keep moving and chase their dreams for a better future ahead of International Women’s Day National: Shell India, one of the most diversified international energy companies in India, unveils its latest campaign, ‘Great things happen when we move’ in their continued quest to be a trusted partner and to help build the country. Through this campaign, Shell aims to celebrate the indomitable spirit of Indians, their dreams, and aspirations along with their inspiring journeys. Shell has launched three new brand films that showcase inspirational stories of mobility thereby bringing alive the brand’s partnership and commitment to this nation as catalyst of change. For many Indians, their vehicles play a significant role in bringing socioeconomic impact for themselves and their families. ‘Great Things Happen When We Move’ is a campaign about the people who displayed unconquerable courage and motivation to realize their ambitions by doing one simple thing - moving forward. The campaign has been specifically launched ahead of International Women’s Day to encourage Indian women who face towering challenges in their quest for mobility. Shell India’s research found a particular set of consumers moving confidently towards their dreams and truly capturing the essence of our campaign idea, Women. The latest campaign encourages Indian women to keep moving by highlighting the stirring stories of three inspiring women: Yogita Raghuvanshi, India’s first woman truck driver, Geeta Tandon Bollywood’s leading Stuntwoman and Sumitra Senapaty, Founder of Women on Wanderlust. The core assertion of these films is to establish that mobility is a key enabler of people’s progress and it holds specifically true for women. At Shell India, powering progress together by providing more and cleaner energy solutions is our key purpose. Speaking on the topic, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said “India is one the fastest growing economies in the world and we acknowledge the role that mobility plays in a nation’s progress. At Shell India, we are constantly working towards understanding the needs of our customers and pioneering products and services that enable this mobility, especially for women as their journey is not easy. Ensuring that women have an equal participation in all areas of work, at all levels and in all locations is our constant endeavor. We have fuel stations entirely run by women, an all women crew that installs canopies at our sites under construction, about one third of the working professionals/ employees in Shell business operations are women and we continue to encourage an interest in STEM education for our young bright minds across schools and colleges. We are proud of the journey we have made so far but there is a lot more that needs to be done and we are committed to keep moving forward on this path and make a brighter future.” The films are based on the stories of three amazing women, and mobility is at the heart of each. The first film highlights the story of Yogita Raghuvanshi, India’s first female truck driver who could not pursue her career in law as she took the responsibility of being a single mother after her husband passed away. The second film celebrates Geeta Tandon who walked out of an unhappy marriage and tried her hand at several things to support herself and her children. She found her calling when she became Bollywood’s leading stuntwoman. The third film showcases how travel expert Sumitra Senapaty, Founder of Women On Wanderlust, encourages women to travel to over 50 destinations around the world. Click here to watch the films: Yogita Raghuvanshi – https://youtu.be/ymjkC23GUfU Geeta Tandon - https://youtu.be/5FAo9qIwK3U Sumitra Senapaty - https://youtu.be/WPa2Gz2Hfb8 ENQUIRIES: Rinjini Mitra +91 9051313996 rinjini.mitra@edelman.com Jennisha Bhate +91 9820551903 jennisha.bhate@edelman.com NOTES TO EDITORS About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, March 4, 2021. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. News and Media Releases 2020Media releases published in 2020 by Shell in India Student team from the Delhi Technological University wins Shell Global Pitch the Future competition Dec 14, 2020 DTU Supermileage Won with their Idea for the ‘Decarbonising Road Freight Transport’ Challenge. Nayara Energy and Shell Lubricants ink strategic partnership to provide world-class offerings for customers across India Dec 14, 2020 Nayara Energy, a new-age integrated downstream energy company and Shell, the global leader in finished lubricants, announced a strategic partnership that will provide customers access to Shell Lubricants’ best-in-class products, including the premium range of Ultra engine oils at Nayara and Essar fuel stations. Uber partners with Shell to support their drivers with a range of benefits in Karnataka Nov 19, 2020 Benefits across fuel, lubricants, coolants, car care products and beverages at 65 Shell stations across the State to enhance average net savings for drivers by 10%-20%. Thirteen breakthrough energy start-ups graduate at Shell E⁴ Demo Day 2020 Nov 10, 2020 Shell E4 incubates and supports start-ups via various modules of linking talent, technology, capital, and know-how to accelerate India’s transition to a sustainable energy future. Shell Lubricants partners with Hoopy for convenient, zero-contact doorstep vehicle servicing solutions for two-wheelers in India Aug 28, 2020 Aims to create greater self-reliance for mechanics while providing a trusted solution for consumers Four Indian teams win big in first ever virtual Shell Eco-marathon Asia Off-Track Awards Jun 11, 2020 Shell India is proud to announce that teams from India have bagged awards in four out of six categories at the first virtual Shell Eco-marathon Asia Off-Track Awards. While the on-track event was cancelled in lieu of the COVID-19 pandemic, students were evaluated online for the off-track awards in categories Technical Innovation, Vehicle Design (Prototype and Urban Concept), Communications, Safety and Circular Economy. Shell Lubricants and Pitstop partner to bring ‘Zero Contact’ Doorstep Vehicle Servicing and Safe Mobility to Indian consumers Jun 09, 2020 Initiative to enable safe mobility experience for consumers and generate employment opportunities for mechanics affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Shell launches ‘Scale Track’ for mature start-ups under its E⁴ Programme Feb 17, 2020 Bengaluru - Shell announces the launch of ‘Scale Track’ under its E4 programme – Shell’s flagship start-up incubation programme. The Scale Track is built for mature, energy-related start-ups who have achieved a product-market fit with their commercial products. The Track is customized to support start-ups in strengthening their strategy and scaling up operations by offering insights from global companies and industry leaders, material resources including full access to their lab at the Shell Technology Centre Bangalore, and access to a focused mentorship programme. Shell launches ‘Scale Track’ for mature start-ups under its E⁴ Programme Feb 17, 2020 Bengaluru - Shell announces the launch of ‘Scale Track’ under its E4 programme – Shell’s flagship start-up incubation programme. The Scale Track is built for mature, energy-related start-ups who have achieved a product-market fit with their commercial products. The Track is customized to support start-ups in strengthening their strategy and scaling up operations by offering insights from global companies and industry leaders, material resources including full access to their lab at the Shell Technology Centre Bangalore, and access to a focused mentorship programme. 10 start-ups selected for the 2020 edition Shell E4 collaborates with Industry Partners to strengthen their strategy and help scale up operations Partners on board for this track include ABB, AVL, Indian Angel Network, Catapult, Maharashtra State Innovation Society, The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBSCD) and Ola to name a few. The collaboration between Shell and these partners will allow start-ups several benefits such as access to a wider network and customer base, subject matter expertise, mentorship and investment opportunities which will help them scale their businesses and market share. The current themes for the 2020 Scale Track are focused on the: Future of Mobility with advanced startups in “the mobility space” aspiring to bring forward disruptive technologies, business models and differentiated offerings, and, Energy Management Systems with innovative startups in “the energy management space” ranging from energy auditing to efficiency improvement and overall management After rigorously examining and evaluating numerous applications, 10 start-ups have been selected for the Scale Track this year. Several of these, namely, Energos, IOTomation, LogicLadder, Jal Technologies and APChemi are introducing cutting edge innovation to the energy management space to tackle some of the world’s most pressing concerns such as pollution control, energy distribution & storage and waste management. Other qualified startups like Offgrid, Go GreenEOT, Commutec, eee-Taxi, and Magenta Power are making use of advanced technology and innovative business model solutions such as battery technology, Vehicle-As-a-Service, shared mobility, fleet digitization, EV charging with many focusing on the electric vehicle ecosystem. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “We are happy to welcome a new batch of startups, the Scale Track cohort, as a part of the well-established E4 Programme. Along with our partners, we believe that these young professionals will reap significant benefits from the programme which will help them go to the market with a better business strategy and execution capability, leapfrogging their growth. It was a competitive selection process and it was clear that these start-ups will help India in its energy transition journey and contribute to the growing clean energy ecosystem in the country.” James Unterreiner, General Manager, Shell E4 Startup Hub said “We believe a collaborative approach between corporates is essential to enhance the entrepreneurial ecosystem in the country by linking talent, technology, capital and know-how. The Shell E4 partnerships aim to provide an enhanced value proposition to start-ups. This is a bespoke program where the start-ups will benefit from a network of industry experts and advisors leveraging Shell and its Partners’ global reach.” Start-ups will be supported to scale their operations through setting up systems and processes; building their teams; and maturing their product in a dedicated environment. The mobility and energy management ecosystem in India can only get more robust with corporates working together on common themes, screening new technologies to help startups grow and scale. The Shell E4 Start-up Hub offers world-class programmes to support and enable energy-related start-ups at various levels of maturity. The programmes are tailor-made in ways that suit the unique nature of energy start-ups, which typically require longer gestation periods. Enquiries: Shell – Priyanka Dube, Priyanka.Dube@shell.com; +9910385564 Edelman India – Jayashree Basu, Jayashree.Basu@edelman.com; +91 95994 42680 Notes to Editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, February 17, 2020. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell Lubricants and Pitstop partner to bring ‘Zero Contact’ Doorstep Vehicle Servicing and Safe Mobility to Indian consumers Jun 09, 2020 Initiative to enable safe mobility experience for consumers and generate employment opportunities for mechanics affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. National - Shell Lubricants, the global leader in finished lubricants has partnered with Pitstop, a Bengaluru-based start-up, to enable zero-contact doorstep servicing of vehicles for consumers, who at this time are looking for convenient, safe and trustworthy services, which minimise contact with others. The initiative comes as a nimble solution to help consumers and mechanics alike. It aims to tackle the growing need for safety and mobility as the nation-wide lockdown eases, minimizing exposure for both consumers and mechanics. It also aims to generate additional business opportunity for the mechanic community whose livelihood has been affected over the past couple of months, in the wake of COVID-19. The initiative will create a unique ecosystem comprising of 500 operational vans for doorstep services and will generate employment for mechanics across 20 cities including Delhi-NCR, Bangalore, Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad. All the mechanics will be trained to follow relevant safety protocols, including the use of PPE and ensuring that everything is sanitized. Consumers are increasingly seeking convenience and professional handling of their vehicles in a more sanitized environment. They are hesitant to venture out due to a fear of lack of sanitization and cleanliness. They are looking for options which give them peace of mind, convenience and trust. Independent garage owners, on the other hand, are also apprehensive about their safety and are facing a challenge in terms of consumer inflow. Enrolling as a partner of Shell Pitstop network provides them easy access to consumers, assures steady business, and allows access of training to work in a safe manner. How will this work? Consumers can book the service listed in the Pitstop app & choose a time slot for which a doorstep team will be assigned to them. The team of mechanics will perform the car inspection, oil change and complete the service using all safety guidelines and sanitise the car. Payment will be facilitated online. Raman Ojha, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India, said, “The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a fundamental shift in our lives. Consumers are looking for different options to meet their emerging needs driven by social distancing norms. At Shell India, we wanted to provide a trustworthy and convenient solution for their mobility needs. At the same time, we also wanted to ensure both safety as well as steady business opportunities for our mechanic partners, an intrinsic part of our community. The Shell-Pitstop partnership will create a new ecosystem through which consumers will be able to avail Safe Zero-Contact Doorstep services for their cars via an app-based platform and mechanic partners will get access to jobs and training through it”. Mihir Mohan, Founder & CEO of Pitstop further added, “We are delighted to have Shell as our lubricant partner as we strive to serve customers across India during these tough times. Our partnership will help us serve people at large during this pandemic. COVID-19 has changed the services industry worldwide. The consumer is demanding and receiving services at home, and this trend is observing unprecedented growth. We are receiving a huge demand for doorstep car services and with our vans, we bring the garage to your doorstep, at your convenience. We are humbled to serve the society in these special times and are committed to providing quality service. We feel great synergies with Shell in delivering the best car and service maintenance experience across the country.” The partnership will provide sanitized, zero contact and affordable car service pan-India. To know further, please visit https://www.getpitstop.com/. Enquiries: Edelman India – Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India – Kashish Wadhwa; kashish.wadhwa@edelman.com; +91 9643037393 Notes to Editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc: Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. About Pitstop: Launched in 2015 by Mihir Mohan, Pitstop is India's most trusted doorstep car service, repair and maintenance provider. With its wide network of 200+ garages, 80+ vans, and a doorstep inspection and service model in 8 cities – Bangalore, Mumbai, Delhi, Pune, Hyderabad, Noida, Gurgaon and Faridabad, Pitstop offers a complete value chain solution for car owners. The company has delivered over 100,000 car services pan-India. With trained technicians, quality spare parts, automated processes, and a real-time update on the car condition and status, Pitstop aims to disrupt the $ 6 billion car service and repair industry in India with its omnichannel strategy to make car care a convenient and transparent process. Pitstop aims to expand its services’ network to 15 cities within this year. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, June 09, 2020. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Four Indian teams win big in first ever virtual Shell Eco-marathon Asia Off-Track Awards Jun 11, 2020 Shell India is proud to announce that teams from India have bagged awards in four out of six categories at the first virtual Shell Eco-marathon Asia Off-Track Awards. While the on-track event was cancelled in lieu of the COVID-19 pandemic, students were evaluated online for the off-track awards in categories Technical Innovation, Vehicle Design (Prototype and Urban Concept), Communications, Safety and Circular Economy. Student teams from India walked away with a $3000 prize money each, by winning awards in four out of six categories, as follows: Team Eco Titans from VIT University won the Communications Award for their notably integrated communications efforts including elements like cross-nation seminars, exhibitions, rallies, radio segments and social media outreach. Team Pravega from the Government Engineering College, Barton Hill won the Circular Economy Award for their successful creation of an eco-friendly prototype made from 100% bamboo fabric combined with glass fibre and powered by electrical energy. Team DTU E-Supermileage from the Delhi Technological University won the Vehicle Design Award in the Prototype category for their innovative aerodynamic and fuel-efficient vehicle design which includes a carbon fibre (G1CM) body structure. Team Inferno from the Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology won the Safety Award for their remarkable approach to safety including standardised protocols for drivers, vehicle transportation, battery management, risk assessments and several other on-site best practices. “We are proud of the student teams representing India in the 2020 Shell Eco-marathon Asia Off-Track Awards. I would like to congratulate all the winners and participants who have done a remarkable job in demonstrating future-ready, innovative and energy efficient vehicles. It is inspiring to see the enthusiasm and passion in these students despite the unprecedented and trying times. We will continue to empower talented minds to make our country a destination for efficient and sustainable mobility solutions”, said Mr Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India The first edition of the virtual Shell Eco-marathon Asia Off-Track Awards witnessed exemplary participation by 8student teams from across India. The winners were announced in a virtual ceremony live on Shell Eco-marathon’s Instagram and Twitter on June 3, 2020, led by Shell Eco-marathon Global General Manager Norman Koch. Scuderia Ferrari Formula 1 Driver Charles Leclerc joined the ceremony as a special guest. Talking about their journey, Sanjeev Poduri, Team Manager, Team Eco Titans, VIT University said, “This victory is special as 2020 has been a difficult year for us. We had put in everything in preparation for the event and we are so glad to have seen this come to fruition. As the team manager all I can say, no matter what adversities occur, hard-work and dedication always pay off. We would like to thank Shell for giving us this wonderful opportunity by finding a virtual solution, not letting our efforts go to waste and rewarding our work.” Sree Tejas S, Team Manager, Team Inferno, Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, said, “Team Inferno is happy to register its first off-track award win and would like to take this as a motivation to strive harder for future wins at SEM competitions. Congratulations to the entire team for its continuous and unrelenting efforts towards Inferno. A special thanks to all our seniors and our respected guide Mr. Khalique Ejaz Ahmed for their efforts in shaping this win. A huge congratulations and many thanks to Shell for successfully conducting the first ever virtual SEM. We are happy to be a part of this historical event and immensely proud to represent and even more so to win an award for India at a prestigious international competition!" The decision to host the off-track awards is an effort by Shell to honour the work put in by students and ensure the continuity of the programme in these uncertain times. Around 50 teams from 16 different countries participated in the virtual Shell Eco-marathon Off-Track Awards for the Asia region. Students submitted their entries with video content to show their work in action. Jury members connected online to select the winners for the six award categories: Vehicle Design (Prototype and Urban Concept), Technical Innovation, Communications, Safety and Circular Economy. This year also marks the 35th anniversary of Shell Eco-marathon. Every year brings new stories of human endeavour and technical excellence, as teams push the boundaries of what’s possible. In these extraordinary times, Shell Eco-marathon continued to find ways to keep the spirit of innovation alive among its student participants. 2020 Shell Eco-marathon Asia Off-track Awards Technical innovation Award, presented by Southwest Research Institute Winner: Team #201, TP Eco-Flash, Temasek Polytechnic High School – Singapore Communications Award: Winner: Team #17, Eco Titans, VIT University – India Honourable mention: Team #504, Semar Urban UGM, Universitas Gadjah Mada – Indonesia Circular Economy Award: Winner: Team #316, Pravega, Government Engineering College, Barton Hill – India Vehicle Design Award (Prototype), presented by Altair: Winner: Team #315, DTU E-Supermileage, Delhi Technological University – India Honourable mention: Team #308, Politeknik Brunei SSE, Politeknik Brunei – Brunei Darussalam Vehicle Design Award (Urban Concept), presented by Altair: Winner: Team #709, NV11 Nanyang Autonomous Venture, Nanyang Technological University – Singapore Honourable mention: Team #615, Averera, Indian Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University - India Safety Award: Winner: Team #320 Inferno, Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology – India Enquiries: Priyanka Dube Country Media Manager, Shell India Priyanka.dube@shell.com Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, June 11, 2020. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell Lubricants partners with Hoopy for convenient, zero-contact doorstep vehicle servicing solutions for two-wheelers in India Aug 28, 2020 Aims to create greater self-reliance for mechanics while providing a trusted solution for consumers National, August 28 2020: Shell Lubricants, the global leader in finished lubricants, has partnered with Hoopy, a unique technology-driven business to bring contactless, easily accessible, and immensely reliable two-wheeler doorstep servicing to India - the world’s largest two-wheeler market. The concept of the service arose out of the need to create a steady source of income for the mechanic community, impacted severely by the COVID-19 pandemic while also creating a safe and trusted service for consumers. The pandemic created severe repercussions for the Indian mechanic community in the form of disrupted business and uncertainty as many chose to move back to their hometowns. “During the thousands of virtual interactions that we have had with two-wheeler mechanics over the past few months, we realized that footfalls to their business and hence, their income itself has become very inconsistent. Many of them urged us to do something in this regard and this is an idea that stuck with us, an initiative to not just create better livelihood opportunities for them, but also to create greater self-reliance amongst them, ” said Raman Ojha, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India. Shell and Hoopy, as partners, are keen to help with the safe recovery of the mechanic community as they gradually return to their workspace. In the coming days, the partnership will be focused on training and generating business for up to 5,000 mechanics, with an aim to support them in overcoming adversities that have risen due to the pandemic's impact on their livelihoods. This would help in creating a community of empowered, self-sustaining mechanics equipped with the latest know-how from experts in the automotive industry. The partnership and programme will also ensure a steady business flow for mechanics with the possibility of making 30-40% higher income than they would in garages. In this new normal, more customers are demanding contactless services while also ensuring affordability. Our collaboration offers a convenient option to avail economical services on a technology-driven platform where they can make bookings, track service request journeys on a real-time basis, and pay on the app and website, hassle-free from the comfort of their homes. Most importantly, get their vehicle serviced anywhere, anytime from a reliable and well-trained professional. “The society at large has been going through one of its most trying times. As a company, we are very happy to be able to contribute by creating better opportunities and working environment for the mechanic community, an intrinsic part of the country’s mobility ecosystem, while also ensuring that our consumers have access to trusted home-based options for safe servicing,” said Ojha. Shashank Dubey, Co-founder, and COO, Hoopy added, “We are thrilled to have Shell as our exclusive expansion and lubricant partner. Shell is synonymous with trust and quality, and this collaboration will enable us to deliver a much-desired combination of convenience, care, and quality to people’s doorstep in these trying times. Our partnership will set a benchmark for how customers can enjoy a safe and high-quality two-wheeler servicing experience amidst COVID-19.” To know further, please visit https://www.hoopy.in/ ENQUIRIES: Edelman India – Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India – Kashish Wadhwa; kashish.wadhwa@edelman.com; +919643037393 NOTES TO EDITORS About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon, and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. About Hoopy: Hoopy is a technology firm focusing on a 2-wheeler servicing industry, headquartered in Bangalore. Launched in Feb 2016 by Abhinav Shrivastava, Shashank Dubey and Vedic Choubey, Hoopy provides periodic maintenance and repair services to customers at their place, their time, with its team of highly skilled and trained professionals. Hoopy is disrupting a $6Bn two-wheeler maintenance market bringing in the transparency using technology. With strict check on genuine spare parts and check points, Hoopy’s trained technicians deliver standardized service delivery every single time at the best rates. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, August 28, 2020. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Nayara Energy and Shell Lubricants ink strategic partnership to provide world-class offerings for customers across India Dec 14, 2020 Nayara Energy, a new-age integrated downstream energy company and Shell, the global leader in finished lubricants, announced a strategic partnership that will provide customers access to Shell Lubricants’ best-in-class products, including the premium range of Ultra engine oils at Nayara and Essar fuel stations. National - Nayara Energy, the fastest growing pan-India private fuel retail network, operates an extensive network of over 5,900 fuel stations across the country. According to B. Anand, CEO, Nayara Energy, “The partnership of Nayara Energy and Shell Lubricants will leverage the combined strength of both brands to offer world-class products and services to cater to evolving needs of our customers across the country, while reinforcing Nayara Energy’s commitment to excellence across the value chain.’’ “We are delighted to partner with Shell Lubricants to cater to the growing need of mobility and convenience in India. This partnership will enable Nayara Energy to elevate customer experience across our extensive network in India.”,’’ added Stephan Beyeler, Chief Marketing Officer, Nayara Energy. Raman Ojha, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India, said, “Our customers are always at the heart of all our efforts. Our partnership with Nayara Energy is a testimony to our shared principles and like-minded approach towards delivering maximum satisfaction, in line with the evolving needs of our consumers. With this partnership, we will also expand our presence in the lubricants market across India bringing our world-class technology, products and service offerings to a much larger number of consumers. There is great potential for further growth in the Indian market, especially in non-metro cities, which we intend to service through this partnership.” Since October 1, 2020, Nayara Energy is launching new retail outlets with Nayara brand and has already unveiled over 200 new Nayara fuel stations in the country. Notes to editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon, and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. About Nayara Energy Nayara Energy is a new-age downstream company of international scale with strong presence across the hydrocarbon value chain from refining to retail and is geared up to the vision of delivering crude to chemicals. In August 2017, the company was acquired by international investors, Rosneft and an investment consortium comprising of global commodity trading firm Trafigura and UCP Investment Group. The company owns and operates India’s second largest single-site, state-of-the-art and one of the most modern and complex refineries in the world at Vadinar, Gujarat with a current capacity of 20MMTPA. The company has a robust and fastest growing private fuel retail network of over 5900 fuel stations in India. The company envisions to expand its network to 7300 stations by 2022. Nayara is committed to reimaging the future through social investments and creating opportunities for people to access healthcare and education to build sustainable communities. For more information, logon to nayaraenergy.com. Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections, and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, December 14, 2020. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. Considering these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied, or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Student team from the Delhi Technological University wins Shell Global Pitch the Future competition Dec 14, 2020 DTU Supermileage Won with their Idea for the ‘Decarbonising Road Freight Transport’ Challenge. National - Shell today announced that a team of students from the Delhi Technological University has been crowned champion of Shell’s Pitch the Future competition, a series of competitions that bring together student teams from all over the world to tackle real-world energy challenges. The series is part of a new Virtual League Shell has introduced as part of its iconic global Shell Eco-marathon programme. The student team, which includes students from a range of disciplines, won the ‘Decarbonising Road Freight Transport’ challenge, supported by Shell Lubricants. For the challenge, the team had to develop an innovative concept that helps decarbonise road freight transport without compromising customer expectations of timely distribution and delivery. The team presented its ideas live to a panel of industry experts, which effectively focused on three key areas of improvement: logistics and supply chain; onboard carbon capturing and utilisation; and vehicle efficiency. These solutions stood out owing to their practical applicability, namely – cost and time effectiveness, positive impact on the social benefit for companies active in this sector, and compliance with industrial and public interest. The live pitches can be found here. Mayank Dawar, Team Manager, DTU Supermileage, said, “Working on solving this real-world energy challenge was exciting and a great learning experience for our team. We are thrilled that all our hard work has been recognised and appreciated at both regional and global levels - a testimony to how we've strode in the right direction, and are eager to see what comes next! We are keen on continuing our endeavours to utilize our knowledge and skill to find practical solutions for the benefit of the environment.” A summary of the DTU Supermileage team’s idea can be found here. Norman Koch, Global General Manager, Shell Eco-marathon, said: “We congratulate DTU Supermileage for winning one of the categories in our inaugural Pitch the Future competition. They brought great energy, innovative thinking, and creativity to the competition and the judges were extremely impressed with their idea.” “I am proud of everyone involved in the Pitch the Future competition. The team here at Shell worked tirelessly to ensure it could go ahead in the new normal and allow students from around the world to apply their STEM skills and passion to some of the world’s most pressing energy challenges.” More than 130 teams from across Asia, Europe and the Americas submitted entries for one or more Pitch the Future challenges. A total of 13 teams were selected to advance to the finals in four challenge categories, with three finalists in each category and a wild card entry for best newcomer team in e-mobility challenge. In addition to the Decarbonising Road Freight Transport category, challenges included Decarbonising the Home, with Shell Energy; Tracking and Reducing CO2 Emissions from Vehicles, with Microsoft; and Electric Vehicle Battery Recharging, with Shell Recharge. Shell also partnered with Adobe to offer participating teams access to Adobe Creative Cloud for six months, and with Shell’s NXplorers team to host webinars to help teams think through best practices for problem solving. Notes to editors Shell Eco-marathon is one of the world’s leading student engineering competitions. Over the past 35 years, the programme has consistently brought to life Shell’s mission of powering progress together by providing more and cleaner energy solutions. The global academic programme brings together Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) students from across the globe to design, build and operate some of the world’s most energy-efficient vehicles. All in the name of collaboration and innovation, as students’ bright ideas help to shape a lower carbon future for all. The top five entries per region per challenge will receive 25 Shell Eco-marathon Virtual League points. Regional winners of each mini-challenge will be awarded $750 plus 50 Virtual League points. The global winner of each challenge will receive an additional $1,500 and a further 100 Virtual League points. Enquiries: Media: International: +44 (0) 207 934 5550 India: priyanka.dube@shell.com About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest.. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, December 14, 2020. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Thirteen breakthrough energy start-ups graduate at Shell E⁴ Demo Day 2020 Nov 10, 2020 Shell E4 incubates and supports start-ups via various modules of linking talent, technology, capital, and know-how to accelerate India’s transition to a sustainable energy future. India - Post the remarkable success of two editions of the Shell E4 (Energizing and Enabling Energy Entrepreneurs) programme, Shell’s third cohort of 13 start-ups graduated on this year’s Demo Day - the largest Energy Entrepreneurship Conference in India. Hosted virtually from November 3-5, the graduation brought together a unique energy entrepreneur ecosystem of investors, start-ups, corporates and academia to support energy entrepreneurs and their solutions. The 2020 event saw about 2,000 participants join in. The 13 graduating start-ups include Energos, Magenta Power, eee Taxi, GoGreen EOT, APChemi, Commutec, Logic Ladder, OffGrid, Jal Technologies, IOTomation, Nirvana, Stelae Technologies and Rezlytix which operate in diverse domains and backgrounds. These start-ups are making use of advanced technology and innovative business model solutions such as battery technology, vehicle-as-a-service, shared mobility, fleet digitization, with many focusing on the electric vehicle ecosystem. Some of them are also working on introducing cutting edge innovation to the energy management space to tackle some of the world’s most pressing concerns such as pollution control, energy distribution & storage, and waste management. Mr. James Unterreiner, General Manager, Shell E4 Programme, said, “Keeping in mind the energy challenges and current ecosystem, we decided to include more sectors and empower start-ups in the mobility and digital space in this edition. We hope to keep identifying and engaging with start-ups that have the talent and vision to innovate technology and accelerate India’s transition to a sustainable energy future.” Shell continues to nurture the relationship with all its incubated start-ups under the E4 programme through the Shell E4 alumni network, bringing together groups of start-ups in key areas such as E-Mobility, Digital, Renewable Energy, Waste to Fuel, among others. There are several success stories defining this year’s start-ups: Magenta Power has recently signed a contract with Stumpp Schuele & Somappa Springs for designing, developing and manufacturing EV charging sockets in India. Another start-up OffGrid has been recently been recognized by the government of India, BIRAC, and Tata Power for its exceptional work in the energy space. APChemi, while part of the E4 programme, secured a 50-ton-per-day chemical recycling plant for plastic waste for London, to name a few. With the 2020 Demo Day, a total of 30 start-ups have graduated from Shell’s E4 programme since its inception. The company aims to incubate at least 20-25 start-ups starting next year. Shell has ramped up the selection for the upcoming Digital Track, which is due to kick off in January 2021. This track will primarily focus on smart digital technologies and disrupt the new energy business both in India and globally. Shell also has an international track for foreign energy-related start-ups looking to enter the Indian market and establish operations here. The program aims to support these start-ups in establishing an in-country presence and scaling their business in India. The Shell E4 Start-up Hub offers world-class programmes to support and enable energy-related start-ups at various levels of maturity. The programmes are tailor-made in ways that suit the unique nature of energy start-ups, which typically require longer gestation periods. Enquiries: Shell – Priyanka Dube, Priyanka.Dube@shell.com; About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant that manages a large supply chain through a network of 4 Regional Distribution Centers and 8 warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2019 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, November 10, 2020. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Uber partners with Shell to support their drivers with a range of benefits in Karnataka Nov 19, 2020 Benefits across fuel, lubricants, coolants, car care products and beverages at 65 Shell stations across the State to enhance average net savings for drivers by 10%-20%. Bengaluru: Uber today announced a partnership with Shell, one of India’s most diversified global energy companies, to provide exclusive benefits across fuel, lubricants, coolants, car care products and beverages for Uber drivers at 65 Shell stations across Karnataka. In continuation of its efforts to support the wellbeing of drivers, those who enrol in the benefits scheme will get Shell’s new QR-code based virtual fuel card within seconds, allowing them to easily pay for fuel and access special rebates at a network of 65 sites. In addition, once activated, the first 10,000 drivers in the State can also avail pre-loaded and a one-time amount of INR 200, which can be used towards making purchases at any of the city based Shell stations in Bengaluru, Mysore, Hubli, Mangalore, Belgaum, Dharwad, and Tumkur. This will enable savings of upto INR 1,000 to 1,500 per month per driver and will further help drivers to enhance their average monthly net savings by 10%-20%. Apart from Karnataka, the Uber and Shell partnership will also extend support to drivers from Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Shell’s Fleet Solutions business in India gives drivers access to a range of benefits, from consolidating payments and invoices through fuel cards to telematics. Telematics provide actionable insights through a combination of vehicle and fueling data, to improve operations, security and efficiency. Speaking about the partnership, Abhilekh Kumar, Head, Business Development, Uber India & South Asia, said, “Drivers are integral to our business, and supporting them during the pandemic is mission critical. In view of the impact of COVID-19 on the livelihoods of drivers, we’re sure our partnership with Shell, which provides them several discounted products and services, will provide them further relief. Our drivers have always gone the extra mile for us and this partnership acknowledges that they continue to remain at the heart of our business.’’ Speaking about the partnership, Deepti Behl, National Head, Shell Fleet Solutions for India said, “We are delighted to welcome Uber's drivers as new customers of our Fleet Solutions programme in India. Ride-hailing is an important area of growth for India’s mobility market and COVID-19 has accelerated digitalisation and its value amongst our customers. Our partnership with Uber not only gives their drivers ease of fuel payment but access to a wide range of products and services at our retail stations like ready-to-eat meals and a safe place to refresh themselves during a day on the road. Shell’s new QR-code based virtual card, developed during the lockdown, caters to the changing customer needs to provide the added benefit of convenience and safety. This partnership will help Uber’s driver partners realize further efficiencies in their operations” Over the past few years, Uber has taken multiple initiatives to support drivers, including - a first-of-its-kind comprehensive platform, Uber Care, through which thousands of drivers received easy access to benefits including life insurance, free online medical consultations and micro-loans. Under Uber Care, micro-loans of INR 500 million have been facilitated to date to driver partners, and over 120,000 driver partners have signed up with partner DocsApp for free medical consultations. More recently, the Uber Care Driver Fund disbursed grants to approximately 100,000 drivers. Uber is also providing financial assistance to those drivers who’ve either been diagnosed with COVID-19 or have been placed in quarantine by health officials. About Uber Uber’s mission is to create opportunity through movement. We started in 2010 to solve a simple problem: how do you get access to a ride at the touch of a button? More than 15 billion trips later, we're building products to get people closer to where they want to be. By changing how people, food, and things move through cities, Uber is a platform that opens up the world to new possibilities. About Shell Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 9500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization, and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. Serving 50000 consumers through a robust network of 200+ distributors across B2C and B2B lines of Sales. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for start-ups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. https://www.shell.in/business-customers/fleet-solutions.html News and Media Releases 2019Media releases published in 2019 by Shell in India After 25 years of operations, Shell, Reliance and ONGC JV transfer the Panna-Mukta fields back to ONGC Dec 19, 2019 Mumbai - After 25 years of operating the Panna-Mukta oil and gas fields, the Panna-Mukta and Tapti (PMT) Joint Venture partners will be handing over the Panna-Mukta oil and gas fields back to the Government of India’s nominee i.e. ONGC on 21st December 2019. Shell India and VisionSpring win global award for #DriveSafeIndia campaign Dec 11, 2019 The Prince Michael Award Recognizes Outstanding Contributors to Improving Road Safety. Team Averera from IIT-BHU clocks the best mileage at Shell’s ’Make the Future Live India 2019' Nov 22, 2019 Bengaluru : The second edition of Shell’s ‘Make the Future Live India 2019’, featuring the Shell Eco-marathon competition has drawn to a close. Of the 24 participating teams, team AVERERA from Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University clocked the best mileage of 387.9 km/kwh in the Battery electric prototype category. Encouraging Innovation for the Future of Mobility: Shell Make the Future Live India 2019 Kicks Off in Bengaluru Nov 21, 2019 Bengaluru: The second edition of the Make the Future Live India 2019 featuring Shell Eco-marathon, kicked off today at the Shell Technology Center, Bengaluru - one of Shell’s three global technology hubs. The event was flagged off by Mr. B. S. Yediyurappa, Honourable Chief Minister of Karnataka. The event was also attended by Mr T.M Vijay Bhaskar, Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka and other senior bureaucrats. Shell India recognized as ‘Top 10 Best Companies for Women in India’ third time in a row Nov 08, 2019 Wins the ‘Working Mother and Avtar Best Companies for Women in India 2019’ for its progressive women policies and inclusive work culture. d.light welcomes investment from Shell on its journey to impact 100 million lives Nov 07, 2019 Shell’s investment will support d.light in its next phase of continued profitable growth as it positively impacts millions of customers, while giving several early investors a successful exit. Orb Energy secures Shell investment in latest funding round Oct 03, 2019 Fresh funds will help fuel the growth of Orb Energy’s in-house finance facility for more Indian small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to benefit from solar power Shell’s IT-Day charts course for industry-wide digital transformation Aug 21, 2019 Bengaluru: Embracing the challenge of ensuring business relevance in a fast-changing digital landscape, Shell recently organised the third edition of its annual tech community event ‘Shell IT-Day’ 2019. Shell IT-Day 2019’s theme, ‘Product Mindset and Staying Relevant’, underscored the need for continuous industry-wide digital transformation to create and protect business value, whilst managing and balancing business risk. Shell sells all its remaining Shareholding in Mahanagar Gas Limited Aug 20, 2019 New Delhi: Shell today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte Ltd (BGAPH) has sold all its remaining shareholding in the publicly listed Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL). Shell uses Solar energy to help power lubricant plants in Europe and Asia Aug 05, 2019 Shell is installing solar photovoltaic panels on the roofs of seven lubricant plants in India, China, Italy, Singapore and Switzerland. Combined, the panels are expected to generate over 7,500 MWh of electricity annually and can result in the avoidance of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of approximately 4,500 tonnes on a CO2-equivalent basis per year, equivalent to taking about 2,600 cars off the road for one year. Shell India recognised as ‘Aon Best Employer’ for second consecutive year Aug 03, 2019 Mumbai - Shell India has received the ‘Best Employer - 2019’ award by global professional services firm Aon plc. Selected from amongst 125 peer organizations across industries, Shell India received the prestigious award for the second consecutive year. Shell India and VisionSpring to make driving safer Jul 10, 2019 Expand vision correction program to serve 3.65 lakh commercial drivers and transportation workers by 2020 Second edition of Make The Future Live India to be held at Shell’s Technology Centre in Bengaluru Jul 09, 2019 Make the Future Live to be held from November 19 – 22, 2019, where representatives from business, academia, government and students will explore the future of energy and mobility Young engineering students to compete with their self-designed and built energy-efficient vehicles in the Shell Eco-marathon, to see who can go farthest on the least amount of energy Making India proud, team IIT-BHU emerges victorious at Make the Future Live Malaysia 2019 May 03, 2019 Six teams from India participated at the Make the Future Live Malaysia festival in 2019 India’s Team Averera from IIT-BHU secures second spot in the battery electric category, with an exceptional mileage of 465 km/kWh Takes home the Vehicle Design (Prototype) Award Cleantech Solar and Shell complete transaction Jan 11, 2019 Cleantech Solar announced today that it has completed the transaction for Shell Eastern Petroleum (Pte) Ltd (Shell) to acquire a 49% interest in the company, following receipt of all necessary regulatory and other approvals. Shell completes deal to acquire 100% equity in Hazira LNG & Port Companies – now set to better serve Indian customers through a fully-owned and integrated Shell gas value chain Jan 09, 2019 New Delhi : Shell Gas B.V., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc (“Shell”), announced today that it has completed acquisition of 26% equity interest in the Hazira LNG and Port venture in India from Total Gaz Electricité Holdings France (“Total”). “This brings Shell’s equity interest in the venture to 100%. Shell launches second cohort of start-ups under its E4 Programme Jan 07, 2019 Shell has selected eight start-ups for 2019, compared to five in 2018 Focus of E4 programme has grown from offering one track to five tracks in 2019, covering the needs of startups at various stages. Shell completes deal to acquire 100% equity in Hazira LNG & Port Companies – now set to better serve Indian customers through a fully-owned and integrated Shell gas value chain Jan 09, 2019 New Delhi: Shell Gas B.V., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc (“Shell”), announced today that it has completed acquisition of 26% equity interest in the Hazira LNG and Port venture in India from Total Gaz Electricité Holdings France (“Total”). “This brings Shell’s equity interest in the venture to 100%. The move allows Shell to build an integrated gas value chain: supply from its global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. It further enables Shell to contribute towards India’s long-term need for more and cleaner energy solutions. Shell Energy India was established in 2017, to aggregate demand from downstream customers and secure competitive international supply to meet such demand. Having commercial and operational flexibility over Hazira will further enable Shell to offer better customer value propositions and build a pan-India gas business. “Fifteen years ago, Shell invested in the Hazira project – the single largest foreign direct investment for India in the energy sector at the time. I am very proud that as a 100% shareholder, we will now be able to utilize this great infrastructure asset to its full potential and help provide much needed gas to serve the growing energy needs of India,” said Ajay Shah, Vice President Shell Energy Asia. About Shell in India: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 7000 employees, 200,000 retail customers and a 250 - strong distribution network. It brings world-class energy solutions across traditional, new energies and its derivatives to individuals and enterprises. Shell’s Lubricants business is active across the full lubricant supply chain - manufacturing base oils, blending base oils with additives to make finished lubricants, and distributes, markets and sells lubricants in over 100 countries. Shell’s retail presence in India spans five states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Shell operates a LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. India is home to Shell’s world class centres carrying out operations, IT and innovation mandates in Bangalore and Chennai. The company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with the Shell E4 programme for startups, and investments in new energy companies like Cleantech Solar, Husk Power. Shell remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which we operate through NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Visit Shell E4 and follow @shell_India to know how we are redefining the energy space. Enquiries: Shell India Priyanka Dube priyanka.dube@shell.com /+91-9910385564 Edelman Shivani Talwar shivani.talwar@edelman.com /+91-9871521310 Note to Editor Hazira LNG & Port venture comprises two companies; Hazira LNG Pvt Ltd (“HLPL”) that operates a LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) regasification terminal in the State of Gujarat; and Hazira Port Pvt Ltd (“HPPL”), which manages a direct berthing multi-cargo port at Hazira. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this release, 9 January 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell launches second cohort of start-ups under its E4 Programme Jan 07, 2019 Bengaluru: Riding on the success of the first cohort of the E4 (Energizing and Enabling Energy Entrepreneurs) programme in 2018, Shell has announced its second cohort of start-ups under the E4 aegis, to further strengthen its position as a partner of choice for energy-sector entrepreneurs in the country. After rigorous examination and evaluation of hundreds of startups, eight startups have been selected to be incubated at the Shell Technology Centre Bangalore (STCB). The companies selected in the second cohort are diverse in backgrounds and domains, which include Battery Management, Digital - AR/VR, Mobility Solutions, Logistics, Energy Management, Operations Efficiency and Energy IOT Applications with interesting business models and differentiated product offerings. Each start-up has a strong connect with Shell’s businesses and will play an integral role in fostering the development of technologies for current and emerging operations at Shell. Shell has successfully ramped up its E4 programme in India. From offering a single track for early stage start-ups in 2018, the E4 programme now offers five tracks in 2019, namely: 1) Growth track (early/mid stage start-ups); 2) Scale up track (mid/late stage start-ups); 3) International track (foreign start-ups entering India); 4) Women Entrepreneur track and 5) Focus track bringing together groups of start-ups in key areas such as E-Mobility, Digital, Renewable Energy, Waste to Fuel, among others. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “After a successful cohort-1 of the E4 programme, which graduated during our Shell E4 demo day last year, we are happy to announce that eight start-ups have been selected as part of the second cohort. We are scaling up by launching five tracks, to accommodate around 30 start-ups annually. Launched in 2017, the objective of the E4 programme is to play a key role in accelerating technologies that fit with India’s energy transition and the businesses operating in the country. By partnering with a diverse set of energy start-ups across the entire value chain, we aim to give back to the ecosystem by becoming the ‘partner of choice’, leading the energy transition in India.” These start-ups will be incubated at a vibrant co-working space for six months at STCB, one of Shell’s three global innovation hubs. Subsequently these startups will graduate from Shell at E4Demo Day – India’s largest entrepreneurship event held exclusively for the energy sector where the Shell E4 companies showcase themselves to key stakeholders in the energy start-up ecosystem. In February 2018, Shell selected the first cohort of five start-ups – Detect Technologies, ION Energy, IoTrek, Trashcon and Ossus Bio-renewables. These companies are working on a diverse range of solutions, including real-time pipeline monitoring, creating safer and smarter infrastructure and outdoor work sites, automating segregation of municipal solid waste, recovering green chemicals from waste water and building energy storage systems, and infrastructure for electric vehicles. The start-ups are successfully integrating technologies like IoT and Artificial Intelligence within their core products. These startups, which graduated in September 2018, will continue their partnership with Shell through various collaborations for the development and growth of the energy sector in India. The startups under the second cohort will undergo an intense acceleration program providing: Expert Sessions - One-to-many sessions followed by one-on-one interactions to define action plan for the growth journey. Executive Series – Successful entrepreneurs and industry leaders will have candid conversations with the program cohort, sharing their journey and experiences. Founders Social - Every month cohort founders will interact with a curated set of interesting entrepreneurs and investors at an informal setting. Mentoring- dedicated mentor who will guide the startup throughout their program journey and beyond. Access to Shell experts and partners for industry knowledge and SME. About Shell in India: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 7000 employees, 200,000 retail customers and a 250 - strong distribution network. It brings world-class energy solutions across traditional, new energies and its derivatives to individuals and enterprises. Shell’s Lubricants business is active across the full lubricant supply chain - manufacturing base oils, blending base oils with additives to make finished lubricants, and distributes, markets and sells lubricants in over 100 countries. Shell’s retail presence in India spans five states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Shell operates a LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira in a joint venture with Total. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. India is home to Shell’s world class centres carrying out operations, IT and innovation mandates in Bangalore and Chennai. The company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with the Shell E4 programme for startups, and investments in new energy companies like Cleantech Solar, Husk Power. Shell remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which we operate through NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Visit Shell E4 and follow @shell_India to know how we are redefining the energy space. Enquiries Rupali Pant Senior Account Executive, Edelman India rupali.pant@edelman.com / +91-8377860539 Notes to Editors About Cohort 2 Start-ups: Mobycy MOBYCY is helping solve India’s last mile connectivity problem during daily commutes between home and office by providing specially designed electric scooters – Zypp; and cycles which can be found on the Mobycy app and unlocked by scanning a QR code to start the ride. Their proprietary keyless lock solution can convert any bike or scooter into a smart scooter and they already have 200K + users registered on their app. RightWatts RightWatts is developing a machine intelligence platform that reduces total cost of operations for industries and critical buildings, such as hotels, hospitals and data centres. Using patent pending technology, the platform determines avenues for achieving 10-30% operational efficiency with direct financial correlation to production losses & energy wastage. With an integrated workflow system, the platform also gives all necessary tools to run a facility efficiently. Ziptrax Ziptrax aims to provide low cost, infinitely serviceable battery energy storage to the masses by re-purposing Li-ion batteries for 2nd use applications such as E-mobility and Energy Storage. Based on Ziptrax's proprietary Machine Learning technology, product hardware, intelligent plug-and-play SaaS, Ziptrax Batteries provide benefits of Li-Ion Battery but at the price of a lead acid Battery. igrenEnergi Viability of EVs is limited by price and performance of batteries. igrenEnergi has developed a breakthrough Battery Management System which extends EV viability, by improving battery performance and enabling beneficial usage models. igrenEnergi's BMS uses proprietary deep-tech innovations which combine advanced power electronics, edge-computing algorithms and IoT + cloud- based intelligence. There unique approach to managing mismatch between cells and modules of a battery enables potential 20-40% improvement in range, cycle life, and efficiency of batteries. TresMoto TresMoto is re-imagining the future of mobility. Their first offering is a plug and play scooter for dock-less rental and micro-delivery service providers. These are purpose built, connected scooters supported by modern day services and sub-systems. They have unique innovations in their designs and development which lets them price their products at par with petrol vehicles in the same segment. Manastu Space Satellites currently carry a highly toxic and carcinogenic propellant which will be banned by 2021 internationally. Manastu Space has designed a green propulsion system consisting of hydrogen peroxide based green propellant, engine associated with it and catalyst providing 40x less toxicity, 25% higher performance, resulting in up to 30% cost savings for satellite manufacturers. AutoVRse AutoVRse helps enterprises develop VR/AR experiences used for design reviews, as sales tools, in experiential marketing and for virtual training. They provide premium VR/AR content with industry best turnaround times by leveraging workflow with automated 3D model optimisation, proprietary lighting workflow and photorealistic library of materials and textures. Customers include firms like Bosch, John Deere, Fidelity and Abbott across India, Singapore, Australia, Germany and USA. LogisticsNow LogisticsNow is building the Digital Backbone of global Logistics to help customers develop a stronger technology enabled transportation and logistics business. Their initial focus is on emerging markets like India, where there are significant challenges in terms of lack of business visibility, utilization, transparency and payments. LogisticsNow provides advanced analytics, leading to better fleet utilization, service and cost savings. Making India proud, team IIT-BHU emerges victorious at Make the Future Live Malaysia 2019 May 03, 2019 Shell Companies in India is proud to announce that Team Averera from the Indian Institute of Technology- Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) has bagged the second position in the battery electric prototype category at the recently concluded Shell Eco-marathon 2019 in Malaysia. Competing with a total of 108 teams participating across Asia, the team stood second in the battery electric prototype category that had 53 participating teams. Team Averera also won the Vehicle Design (Prototype) Award and a cash prize of USD 3000 for their innovative design research and execution, where they captured the challenges faced, and worked on root cause analysis with simulation and arrived at the optimum solution with material selection and design refinement. A part of the four-day annual event that showcases innovative energy ideas, Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2019 challenged bright students to design and build ultra-energy-efficient cars and then put them to test in the competition. All the six student teams in the Indian contingent passed a detailed technical inspection before they were allowed onto the track to see how far they could go on the least amount of fuel. Team Averera clocked 465 kilometres on 1 kilowatt energy per hour in the Battery Electric prototype category. Out of the six teams, five participated in the battery electric category and one competed in the gasoline category. Expressing their joy, the team said: “We are delighted to be the first ever Indian team to win an On-track award at Shell Eco-marathon Asia. We see this win as a culmination of all our hard work and perseverance. We have seen continued improvement over years of participation at Shell Eco-marathon Asia thanks to the combined efforts of our Director IIT (BHU) Varanasi, Coordinator (CERD), seniors, teachers and Shell. Participating at Shell Eco-marathon has been an immensely enriching experience where we got to learn from the brightest young minds from across the region. We accept this honour with humility and hope that we continue to do the country proud over years to come.” Make the Future Live Malaysia celebrated the achievements of a regionally diverse crowd of students from 18 countries across Asia and the Middle East. The festival was inaugurated on 29th April at the Sepang International Circuit, Malaysia, with a flag-off ceremony led by Yeo Bee Yin, Malaysian Minister for Energy, Science, Technology, Environment and Climate Change (MESTECC), and Iain Lo, Chairman of Shell Malaysia. The competition, the first night race in the history of Shell Eco-marathon globally, was a new experience for both the spectators and participants. Now in its 10th year, the Asian edition of Shell Eco-marathon returned to where it was first held, bringing together over 100 student teams to test which car would go the farthest using the least amount of energy. The four-day festival saw new efficiency records set by the student teams competing in either of two categories of the competition: Prototype (futuristic and highly aerodynamic vehicles) or UrbanConcept (vehicles that resemble today’s cars). 2019 saw even participation in the vehicle types with 55 student teams participating in the UrbanConcept category and 53 student teams competing in the Prototype category. Students competed in three different sub-categories based on their selected energy source: Internal Combustion Engine (ICE): gasoline, diesel, ethanol (biofuel); hydrogen fuel cell; and battery electric power. The competition concluded on Thursday at the Shell Eco-marathon Drivers’ World Championship Qualifier where the best UrbanConcept teams in the region will compete for their place in the Drivers’ World Championship in London in July in an exciting head-to-head race to find the most energy-efficient driver. Nanyang E Drive from Nanyang Technological University in Singapore beat other top UrbanConcept cars in a breathtaking race to cross the finish line without running out of their limited allocation of energy. ITS Team 5 from Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember in Indonesia and team LH – EST from Lac Hong University in Vietnam took second and third place, respectively. Norman Koch, General Manager, Make the Future Live, said: “The Drivers’ World Championship incorporates both the fuel efficiency of the vehicle with the technique and skills of the driver. This time it is a strategy of handling the vehicles while simultaneously managing fuel efficiency. We saw amazing action and my congratulations go to all the teams for all their achievements.” In addition, a small number of Shell Eco-marathon student teams also took part in the development of a potential global category for the future. The Shell Eco-marathon UrbanConcept Autonomous Category continues to be developed with students, academics and businesses to build a category that can provide a challenging competitive arena for students to test their ideas and skills. In Asia, teams got the opportunity to exhibit their UrbanConcept car in autonomous mode at Make the Future Live Malaysia. The drivers demonstrated their car moving along a stretch of track without their hands or feet controlling the vehicle. For more information on Make the Future Live Malaysia and Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2019, please visit: www.shell.my/makethefuture Notes to editors: To access previous event images, visit: https://www.flickr.com/photos/shell_eco-marathon/albums About Make the Future Make the Future Live is a global programme bringing people and ideas into collaborative spaces, driving towards a lower-carbon energy future. The programme comes to Malaysia in 2019 bringing together participants from Asia Pacific and beyond. At the heart of Make the Future Live is Shell Eco-marathon. Over its three-decade history the programme has seen thousands of high school and university students from across the world build ultra-energy-efficient vehicles, in a variety of designs, using a spectrum of energy types. Every year brings new stories of human endeavour and technical excellence, as teams push the boundaries of what’s possible. In 2019, Make the Future Live Malaysia will host a regional leg of this global competition programme, Shell Eco-marathon Asia. About Shell Eco-marathon In April 2019, Shell Eco-marathon Asia returns to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, which hosted the inaugural regional event in 2010. Through the years, Shell Eco-marathon Asia has grown in both number of teams and vehicles over the years. Over 100 student teams from 18 countries around Asia Pacific and the Middle East will compete in 2019. After spending months designing, building and testing their designs, these bright young engineers will put their self-built energy-efficient cars to the test on the iconic Sepang International Circuit. Shell Eco-marathon Asia will include two key competitions this year. The longest running competition is the Mileage Challenge where teams compete to discover whose car could travel the farthest on the least amount of fuel. In 2018, the winning team of the Asian leg was efficient enough to travel 2,341 kilometres – about the distance from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia to Yangon, Myanmar – on just one litre of fuel! In addition, teams will have the opportunity to take part in a qualifier for the Drivers’ World Championship. Matching the proven energy-efficiency of their car with the strategy, skill and speed of the driver, this is a race to see who crosses the finish line first without running out of their limited allocation of energy. Top teams will win their place in the 2019 Drivers’ World Championship, to be held in July in London. Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Editors: Cindy Lopez Head, South East Asia/South Asia, Media Relations +6 012 282 1765/ cindy.lopez@shell.com Mich Villar Shell Spokesperson +63 917 536 6424/ mich.villar@shell.com Elaine Villanueva Shell Spokesperson +6582983855/ elaine.villanueva@shell.com Shivani Talwar Edelman India +919871521310/ shivani.talwar@edelman.com Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2018 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, 15 April 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Second edition of Make The Future Live India to be held at Shell’s Technology Centre in Bengaluru Jul 09, 2019 New Delhi, 9th July, 2019: After a successful first edition in 2018, Shell is back with Make the Future Live India, to be held at the Shell Technology Centre, Bengaluru (STCB) between November 19 – 22, 2019. Housed in a city that buzzes with innovation, the STCB is the technology and engineering heartland for Shell, offering high-tech innovation and R&D for multidisciplinary collaboration. This makes it an ideal location to host bright young minds and help them put their innovative fuel-efficient vehicles to the test. One of Shell’s three technology hubs globally, the STCB is the perfect backdrop for Make the Future Live India, bringing together students, business, academia and government to explore more and cleaner energy solutions for a lower-carbon future. Inaugurated in 1939, Shell Eco-marathon is the world’s longest-running student competition wherein engineering students are challenged to design, build and test fuel-efficient cars. Hosted in several countries around the globe, Make the Future Live, featuring Shell Eco-marathon aims to provide an opportunity for multiple stakeholders including students, entrepreneurs, businesses, governments and the public, to experience, test and contribute to bright energy ideas. The India edition will showcase innovation and foster dialogue on clean energy solutions for powering progress in mobility, while deliberating on technologies, challenges and opportunities as well as partnerships for success. This is also a valuable opportunity for student teams to test and fine tune their self designed and built energy efficient vehicles for the regional Shell Eco-marathon Asia competition in 2020. For new participants, this presents a great platform to showcase skill, be part of a world-class experience and test drive vehicles with fellow peers. Student teams that take to the track will be evaluated on the criteria of who covers the greatest distance using the least amount of energy. Commenting on the same, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, “We recognise that some of the brightest ideas come from young innovative minds who are already immersing themselves in tackling complex energy challenges. The ingenuity demonstrated by young students is not only commendable, but truly inspirational. A striking example of perseverence, talent and hard work is Team Averera from IIT-BHU that not only emerged victorious at Make the Future India last year, but also made the country proud by standing second at the Asia chapter of the festival this year. With the newest edition of Make the Future Live India, we hope to continue to elevate our legacy of nurturing our people, partnerships and innovations for a better tomorrow. I welcome all to come join us in this endeavour with encouragement, participation and support.” The first edition of the Make the Future India witnessed enthusiastic performance by the student teams. In the 2018 edition, Team DTU Supermileage claimed victory in the Internal Combustion Engine (ICE) Urban Concept category by achieving a mileage of 154 km/l which is the equivalent of driving from Chennai to Pondicherry on 1 litre of fuel. On the other hand, Team Averera from IIT-BHU achieved an astounding 362.5 km/kWh in the Prototype Battery Electric Category, which is the equivalent of driving from Chennai to Bangalore on a single unit of electricity. Make the Future Live comes as a platform for widespread youth participation following the growing demand of the Indian student community to continue hosting the fuel-efficiency competition on Indian soil. In the past, Indian students have showcased several innovative and energy efficient models and prototypes that have also caught the attention of the industry and government. For more information, please visit www.shell.in/makethefuture Enquiries: Edelman India – Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India – Shivani Talwar; shivani.talwar@edelman.com; +91 9871521310 Notes to Editors About Make the Future Live Make the Future Live is a global programme bringing people and ideas into collaborative spaces, driving towards a lower-carbon energy future. At the heart of Make the Future Live is Shell Eco-marathon. Over its three-decade history the programme has seen thousands of high school and university students from across the world build ultra-energy-efficient vehicles, in a variety of designs, using a spectrum of energy types. Every year brings new stories of human endeavour and technical excellence, as teams push the boundaries of what’s possible. In 2019, the Asian leg of Make the Future Live will be in Malaysia, China and India. About Shell Eco-marathon Shell Eco-marathon is one of the world’s leading energy-efficiency competition programmes for students. It aims to push the boundaries of what is technically possible and inspire young people to become leading scientists and engineers of the future. The programme requires high school and university teams to explore every aspect of design and technology to build their own ultra-energy-efficient cars, and then take them out on the track in competition. The concept dates back to 1939 when Shell Oil Company employees in the USA made a friendly wager on who could travel farthest using the same amount of fuel. This was the beginning of what is now known as Shell Eco-marathon Mileage Challenge. Shell Eco-marathon, as it is recognised today, first took place in 1985 in France; 25 wooden vehicles were on the grid that year! In the 34 years since, the competition has grown to host thousands of participants from over 50 countries across the world, in nine locations. The current Mileage Challenge record stands at 3,771 km/l – that’s the equivalent of driving from London to Rome and back again on just one litre of fuel. In 2018, 360 teams from 51 countries participated in Shell Eco-marathon. About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, July 9th 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell India and VisionSpring to make driving safer Jul 10, 2019 Expand vision correction program to serve 3.65 lakh commercial drivers and transportation workers by 2020 New Delhi – Shell India and VisionSpring committed today to help 3.65 lakh commercial drivers and allied transportation workers to see clearly and drive safer by the end of the very symbolic year 2020. 20/20 being the measure of perfect vision, the #DriveSafeIndia initiative will accelerate access to vision correction and advance national goals to improve road safety. Drivers, mechanics and other allied transport workers across four states - Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka - will receive free vision screening, low-cost eyeglasses, and referrals for other eye conditions. The decision to expand #DriveSafeIndia to serve significantly more people follows a program assessment conducted by VisionSpring which evidenced a deep need for eyeglasses among heavy and light commercial vehicle drivers who are driving with uncorrected blurry vision. VisionSpring found that 25% of drivers participating in the pilot phase of the program failed to meet the standard required for a driver’s license. Meaning, without eyeglasses, these drivers were unable to see road signs at 20-30 meters and meet the Indian Motor Vehicles Act eligibility requirement of 6/18 vision or better for both eyes. Further, during follow-up interviews with 385 drivers, 68% reported that they never had a vision test which is required for a driving license or license renewal. After getting glasses for the first time in their lives, 76% of the drivers articulated that driving safely and optimal job performance would be the most important results of their new clear vision. Speaking about the initiative, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Country Chairman of Shell Companies in India, said, “Indian roads witness one death every four minutes, with almost 80% attributed to driver error. The problem of uncorrected vision, which endangers the lives of drivers, passengers, and all road users, needs urgent intervention. We, at Shell India, are committed to creating an ecosystem that encourages safe behavior on India’s roads. The #DriveSafeIndia program is a part of our effort to create safer roads across the country, and these eye camps are an important step in the right direction. We look forward to other companies, individuals, and organizations joining us on this journey to make India’s roads safer.” “The current situation is very dangerous. But this problem is solvable,” shared Ella Gudwin, President of VisionSpring, the pioneering social enterprise that is making eyeglasses accessible across 43 countries. “Eyeglasses were invented 700 years ago, and today they offer a powerful, cost-effective solution for one of our most pressing health and safety problems – deadly traffic accidents. Eyeglasses are a road safety intervention, literally sitting right in front of our eyes. Imagine how many lives could be saved with a simple pair of glasses. But not enough people are wearing them. Together with Shell, we are changing that. We invite allies everywhere to bring vision correction to transit hubs and India’s drivers.” Experts validate what most people know instinctively to be true: Eyesight is the dominant sense that drivers rely upon to navigate roads, enabling them to see and avoid hazards. Indeed, 60% of traffic accidents are attributable to impaired vision. Drivers surveyed by VisionSpring identified blurred vision (43%) and night glare (29%) as their top two vision problems. More than half of those surveyed (57%) were driving heavy commercial vehicles and the rest light commercial vehicles. Results from the #DriveSafeIndia assessment make a strong case for bridging the gap between driver’s license policies and the reality of drivers wearing glasses. Further, it underscores the need for proactive interventions that effectively increase eyeglasses utilization among drivers in need of vision correction. Notes to Editor: As per industry estimates, India has over 90 lakh truckers and allied transport workers. In 2018, 4.61 lakh traffic accidents and 1.49 lakh fatalities were reported as per Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, India (MORTH). Trucks, buses and light commercial vehicles accounted for almost 28% of all road accidents. About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like Road Safety, NXplorers and Access to Energy across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Contact Information: Shell India Priyanka Dube priyanka.dube@shell.com About VisionSpring VisionSpring is the pioneering, international social enterprise accelerating the uptake of affordable eyewear among people who earn less than $4 per day in emerging and frontier markets. Founded in 2001, VisionSpring uncovers latent demand for vision correction; conducts community, workplace and school vision screenings; trains others to do the same; and supplies radically affordable, durable eyeglasses. VisionSpring has distributed 5.5 million pairs of eyeglasses, providing vision correction in 43 countries, currently working with over 400 NGO, corporate, government, and health partners. Through the proliferation of eyeglasses, VisionSpring has generated $1.1 billion in economic impact for very low-income households. VisionSpring has been recognized for its innovative work with the Skoll Award; social entrepreneur fellowships from Draper Richards Kaplan, the Aspen Institute, and the Schwab Foundation; and honors from World Bank, Duke University, Fast Company, and Tribeca Film Festival, among others. Learn more: www.visionspring.org and follow @VisionSpring Contact Information: VisionSpring Shobha Ramani Shobha.Ramani@visionspring.org Shell India recognised as ‘Aon Best Employer’ for second consecutive year Aug 03, 2019 Mumbai - Shell India has received the ‘Best Employer - 2019’ award by global professional services firm Aon plc. Selected from amongst 125 peer organizations across industries, Shell India received the prestigious award for the second consecutive year. The award recognises the achievements of companies and their organisational excellence based on a framework that evaluates companies across Intent-Design-Experience. The study identifies companies that create real competitive advantage through their people and explores the factors that make a company a workplace of choice for its employees. As one of the most sought-after awards of its kind globally, the recognition reinforces Shell’s position as an employer of choice in India and acknowledges it to be an organisation where leadership vision, employee engagement and people practices are seen to be synchronous as a matter of principle. Speaking on the occasion, Tarun Varma, Vice President – Human Resources, Shell India said, “It is heartening to note that Aon plc recognized Shell’s focus on attracting, developing, and retaining a diverse community of people. Shell has a proud heritage of celebrating diversity and fostering inclusion. Our employee practices provide an inclusive work culture where one can bring their whole self to work and integrate their personal and organizational purpose. We are delighted with this honour and understand the deep sense of responsibility it thrusts upon us. This honour has encouraged us to move forward in our journey of powering progress together through our people, partnerships and innovation, for India and the world.” Dr. Ashish Ambasta, Director, Talent Advisory, Aon, added, “We congratulate Shell India Markets on being adjudged Aon Best Employer India once again. People strategy is a critical part of their overall strategy. It promotes diversity hiring and provides a platform for employees to speak up, thereby promoting a truly inclusive workplace. This makes it one of the most sought-after employer of the country.” Shell India has continuously encouraged a culture of open innovation and inclusion where employees are empowered to come to work every day to fulfil a compelling purpose. This includes helping provide the opportunity to find integration between one’s personal purpose and the organizational purpose. In addition to applauding this focus, Shell’s forward-looking initiatives in line with their growth aspirations in India, especially those around employee engagement, diversity & inclusion and people development were considered most noteworthy. Enquiries: Edelman India – Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India – Shivani Talwar; shivani.talwar@edelman.com; +91 9871521310 Notes to Editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Aon plc (NYSE:AON) is a leading global professional services firm providing a broad range of human capital, risk, retirement and health solutions. Our 50,000 colleagues in 120 countries empower results for clients by using proprietary data and analytics to deliver insights that reduce volatility and improve performance. The Aon Best Employers program evaluates employee opinions to measure employee engagement, leadership, performance culture, employer brand and recognises employer excellence worldwide. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, July 5th 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell uses Solar energy to help power lubricant plants in Europe and Asia Aug 05, 2019 Shell is installing solar photovoltaic panels on the roofs of seven lubricant plants in India, China, Italy, Singapore and Switzerland. Combined, the panels are expected to generate over 7,500 MWh of electricity annually and can result in the avoidance of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of approximately 4,500 tonnes on a CO2-equivalent basis per year, equivalent to taking about 2,600 cars off the road for one year. In India, the panels will be installed at the company’s lubricants plant in Taloja, Maharashtra. Shell will be working with Cleantech Solar for the installation of approximately 1,700 panels, which is expected to generate 683 MWh of electricity annually, and can result in the avoidance of 500 tonnes of annual GHG emissions. As for the funding model for the Taloja solar panels, Shell has signed a subsidy free purchase power agreement with Cleantech Solar. As part of the agreement, Cleantech Solar will design, build, finance, own, operate, and maintain the solar facility for the Taloja plant in India. Shell acquired a 49% equity stake in Cleantech Solar, a developer, owner, and operator of commercial and industrial solar energy systems in Southeast Asia and India. “Using solar energy to help power our lubricant plants enables us to reduce the carbon intensity in our lubricants supply chain,” said Richard Jory, Shell’s Vice President, Lubricants Supply Chain. “Every industry has to do its part in developing cleaner ways of working and this is part of our commitment to run a safe, efficient, responsible and profitable business.” The solar energy generated will be used to help power operations at these lubricant plants, lowering operating costs in the long-run and reducing reliance on the grid. All panels will be installed by end-2019. Shell is looking to expand the use of solar panels in other lubricant plants around the world. Other examples of Shell’s work to make its lubricants business less carbon intensive include improving the energy efficiency of its lubricant plants, and working to reduce, reuse and recycle packaging across the lubricant supply chain. Enquiries: Edelman India – Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India – Shivani Talwar; shivani.talwar@edelman.com; +91 9871521310 Notes to Editors: Shell has the largest lubricants business in the world and have been market leaders for the past 12 years. We sell about five billion litres of lubricant every year, roughly one third of which goes into passenger cars, and two-thirds into industrial and heavy-duty use. The seven lubricant plants with solar photovoltaic panels installed are the Nangang, Zhapu and Zhuhai plants in China, Taloja plant in India, Cisliano plant in Italy, Tuas plant in Singapore and Bern plant in Switzerland. The estimate of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions avoided are calculated using a location-based method for Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions, as defined by the World Resources Institute GHG Protocol. The estimate of GHG emissions generated by a car are based on the assumption of tailpipe CO2 emissions only, C-Segment car, 6l/100 km gasoline, 12,000 km/year, 2.36 kgCO2/litre gasoline. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2018 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, August 5, 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell sells all its remaining Shareholding in Mahanagar Gas Limited Aug 20, 2019 New Delhi: Shell today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte Ltd (BGAPH) has sold all its remaining shareholding in the publicly listed Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL). This is part of Shell’s ongoing portfolio optimization to transform Shell into a simpler company, delivering stronger returns. This announcement has no impact on other Shell businesses in India. Shell believes that India offers a vast opportunity for growth for Shell’s businesses and we will continue to pursue opportunities which can enhance Shell’s footprint in the country. We believe in the key role that gas will play in India and will continue to seek opportunities in that arena. Shell looks forward to playing its part in the energy transition in India. Enquiries: Shell India Nishi Oswal nishi.oswal@shell.com/+91-9820075465 Edelman India Shivani Talwar shivani.talwar@edelman.com/+91-9871521310 Notes to Editors: MGL is one of the largest City Gas Distribution in India with sole authorisation to distribute compressed natural gas (CNG) and piped natural gas (PNG) in Mumbai, its Adjoining Areas and the Raigad district in the state of Maharashtra, India. Shell has sold all its shareholding in MGL and has now exited the company. About Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2018 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this release, August 20, 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this release that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell’s IT-Day charts course for industry-wide digital transformation Aug 21, 2019 Bengaluru: Embracing the challenge of ensuring business relevance in a fast-changing digital landscape, Shell recently organised the third edition of its annual tech community event ‘Shell IT-Day’ 2019. Shell IT-Day 2019’s theme, ‘Product Mindset and Staying Relevant’, underscored the need for continuous industry-wide digital transformation to create and protect business value, whilst managing and balancing business risk. The event was held at the Shell IT Hub in Bengaluru, the largest IT hub for Shell globally. Keynote speakers Jay Crotts, Executive Vice President and Group CIO, Royal Dutch Shell, Robbert van Rutten, VP and CIO Global Functions and VP Information Risk Management, and Kayoor Gajarawala, VP Business Readiness addressed the imperatives of staying relevant in today’s dynamic environment through skill development, agility and a product mindset to deliver value at speed. Their sessions also highlighted the significance of the product mindset in leveraging technology to maximise business value. Shell IT-Day 2019 encouraged the 3000 + employees at the Shell IT Bengaluru Hub, other Shell entities and technology partners to showcase their projects, achievements, and innovative energy-industry-IT solutions through interactive booths. QuizWiz, a quiz competition on Shell’s business and general knowledge, was also held during the event. This was followed by an interactive session on ‘Designing with Data: A guide to data-driven, user-centric products to sensitise employees on the importance of data-driven practices. Focused on inspiring learning about Shell’s entire hydrocarbon value chain, Shell IT-Day plays a key role in sparking new ideas through panel discussions, quiz competitions, masterclass sessions, and engaging the vibrant supplier and partner ecosystem. Such initiatives exemplify Shell’s increasing focus on creating an open innovation and learning culture and the role of technology in driving energy sector growth. Mr. Jay Crotts, EVP and Group CIO, Royal Dutch Shell said, “Product innovation and technology is at the forefront of all our operations. We believe that creating a product mindset can go a long way in helping us evolve and adapt to an ever-changing external environment. Platforms such as the Shell IT-Day are an integral part of our culture at Shell to help us understand the need to drive change and make the most of the countless opportunities and business scenarios.” Mr. Arun Padmanabhan, VP – IT, Shell, Bengaluru, added “With Shell IT-Day 2019, we aim to take forward our strong focus on technology, community and learning. Our objective has been to create awareness on the changing technological landscape and the impact it is having on the way we do business. The work we do across our IT locations globally and in the Bengaluru IT Hub, in particular, is remarkable and we aim to take it to the next level by being at the forefront of the technological revolution.” Since its inauguration in 2017, Shell IT-Day has become an integral part of the annual calendar of Shell India. It has helped anchor Shell’s efforts to be at the forefront of innovation and help utilise technology effectively and efficiently to drive sustained business value and growth. Enquiries: Edelman India Shivani Talwar shivani.talwar@edelman.com Jayashree Basu jayashree.basu@edelman.com Notes to Editors: About Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, August 21, 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell India recognized as ‘Top 10 Best Companies for Women in India’ third time in a row Nov 08, 2019 Wins the ‘Working Mother and Avtar Best Companies for Women in India 2019’ for its progressive women policies and inclusive work culture. Chennai – Shell India today announced that it has been recognised as ‘a Top 10 Best Companies for Women in India 2019’, based on the annual study conducted by Working Mother and Avtar Group. Being bestowed this honour for the 3rd consecutive year, Shell recognises its enhanced responsibility towards demonstrating visible Leadership of Diversity & Inclusion at the workplace, as also ensuring fair administration of policies, sustained delivery of programs, strong governance and sponsorship of Shell Women’s Network and work culture that enables every employee to bring their whole self to work every day. The study ranked companies based on several parameters including women participation in the workforce, flexible work, policies, recruitment and retention, work-life programs and safety. Shell India is characterized by a diverse, multicultural, multigenerational workforce comprising of 20 nationalities, representing 30+ skill pools including R&D, technology, operations, finance, IT, HR, Contracting & Procurement, distribution and marketing of traditional and new energy solutions as well as trading and supply of energy offerings. Women form close to 29% of the company’s workforce in India and are represented across all skill pools, be it commercial, technical or functions. Speaking on the occasion, Tarun Varma, Vice President – Human Resources, Shell India said, “Our intent is to shape a workplace that promotes a spirit of open innovation, observes equality for all genders, values differences, accepts personal choices and celebrates inclusion. Our– UNBLOCK and UNLOCK approach ensures that we ‘unblock’ a world of opportunities for women, unblock gender stereotypes, and enable every individual ‘unlock’ their full potential. We believe that diverse teams led by inclusive leaders are integral to business success. We are honoured and grateful to the Working Mother and Avtar group for recognizing our efforts. We remain committed to this journey” For Shell “Balance means Business”. The company believes that gender balance is about equal participation of women and men in all areas of work, at all levels and in all locations. The recruitment process at Shell has been structured to ensure a balanced intake of women employees into the workforce through campus and experienced professional hiring programs, enabled by employee referral drives. The company places strong emphasis on the development and progression of women through programs like WCDP (Women Career Development Program), Senior Women Connect, Stairway to Success & Mentoring circles. Specific initiatives aimed at supporting women during various life events such as taking break from work, maternity and returning back to work, include programs like Project re-energise, Lean-in circles, Maternity Policy and Mpower Toolkit. The company is also proud of its Retailers, who engage a significant number of women into front line roles such as forecourt service champions with a deep sense of responsibility and care towards their safety and security while they pursue their sustainable livelihood. As one of the most prestigious awards globally, this recognition from ‘Working Mother and Avtar’ reinforces Shell’s position as a trusted organization and an employer of choice where diversity and inclusion is central to the company’s core values. Enquiries: Shell India – Priyanka Dube; Priyanka.dube@shell.com; +91 9910385564 Edelman India – Shivani Talwar; shivani.talwar@edelman.com; +91 9871521310 Notes to Editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, November 08, 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Encouraging Innovation for the Future of Mobility: Shell Make the Future Live India 2019 Kicks Off in Bengaluru Nov 21, 2019 Bengaluru: The second edition of the Make the Future Live India 2019 featuring Shell Eco-marathon, kicked off today at the Shell Technology Center, Bengaluru - one of Shell’s three global technology hubs. The event was flagged off by Mr. B. S. Yediyurappa, Honourable Chief Minister of Karnataka. The event was also attended by Mr T.M Vijay Bhaskar, Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka and other senior bureaucrats. DAY 1 OF MAKE THE FUTURE LIVE INDIA 2019 The inaugural ceremony witnessed participation from 24 student teams from across India, who are competing to see whose car goes the farthest using the least amount of energy. The winning teams of the competition stand to win a total of INR 22,00,000 in prize money across various categories. One of the world’s longest-running student competitions, Shell Eco-marathon is a global programme that challenges bright minds to design and build ultra-energy-efficient cars, and then put them to the test. Hon. Chief Minister Yediyurappa said, “I’m extremely happy to be a part of Make the Future Live India 2019 organised at the Shell Technology Centre, Bengaluru. I hope that this event successfully showcases innovation and firsthand dialogue on alternative energy solutions. I thank you all for your commitment, partnership and continued cooperation for sustainable development. Together, we shall Make the Future of Karnataka and India better.” Harry Brekelmans, Projects & Technology Director at Royal Dutch Shell said, “Bengaluru hosts one of our three global technology hubs which all focus on innovation. Make the Future Live is exactly about this; it’s about innovation, inspiration, dedication and determination which is defined by a ‘can-do’ attitude. This is precisely what we’re going to need to be able to solve some of the biggest problems that we’ll face in the future. I urge everyone to look out for some of the solutions to these problems on the track here at Make the Future.” This is the first time in the history of Shell Eco-marathon, that the event is being held inside a Shell facility. STCB is the technology and engineering heartland for Shell and the perfect backdrop to host MTF Live Valuable opportunity for student teams to test and fine-tune their self-designed and built vehicles for the regional Shell Eco-marathon Asia in 2020 This year saw participation from 24 student teams across India Now in its second year in India, the event challenges the students from India’s premier universities, to put their self-built energy efficient vehicles through a detailed safety and technical inspection, before being allowed to compete on track under different categories. The student teams are competing in either of the two categories: Prototype – futuristic and highly aerodynamic vehicles – or UrbanConcept – vehicles that resemble today’s cars and run on battery. This year saw two teams participate in the UrbanConcept and 22 in the Prototype category. Students can compete in categories based on their selected energy source: Internal Combustion Engine (ICE): Gasoline, diesel, ethanol (biofuel); and battery electric power. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “As India witnesses rapid growth in the mobility space, there is need to preempt, identify and address the challenges that accompany the growth. We must be conscious that while we must grow, we must also provide mobility and mobility solutions for our people in a way that allows us to live long and healthy lives. It is also an immense source of pride for me to announce that this is the first time, we’re hosting the Shell Eco-marathon at a Shell campus. All the hard work that has gone into bringing this together only indicates what our country is capable of when we put our minds to it.“ As part of Make the Future Live India, Shell hosted a business forum titled ‘Powering Progress Together. The forum engaged industry experts, academicians and professionals from the auto industry who discussed the role of disruptive technology, changing consumer choices and government policy to meet growing mobility challenges. Entrepreneurs like Hemalatha Annamalai, Founder and CEO- Amphere Vehicles, Jitendra Apte, CEO, Co-Founder- igrenEnergi, Rahul Tongia, Fellow with Bookings India and Member, World Economic Forum, Aayushi Jain, Directorate of Policy and Government Partnerships, Bounce - addressed the audience about the solutions they have for the future of mobility. Their discussions focused on the coexistence of electric and petroleum vehicles, touched upon battery management systems in EVs and the growing need to make mobility accessible to all. Make the Future Live India also showcased a variety of project demonstrations including Bitumen solutions, a special LNG fueled bus, the Mahindra Treo e-rickshaw and a mobility led startup supported by Shell E4. There was also a special eye screening facility for the participants at the event in line with Shell’s #DriveSafeIndia initiative which aims to reach out to 365,000 commercial drivers by 2020 to help them see better and drive safer. Notes to Editor About Make the Future Live India 2019 Held for the first time in India in 2018, Make the Future featuring Shell Eco-marathon, is a festival of ideas and innovation. It is a unique global platform for conversations, collaboration and innovations focused on world’s energy challenges. In India, the event focuses on “Powering progress in mobility, together”. The four-day event will feature bright energy ideas and solutions that address the global energy challenge: how to meet the energy demands of the future, while producing less CO2. Taking place at Shell Technology Centre Bengaluru (STCB) from November 19-22, 2019, the event will host thousands of visitors, inviting them to experience the ideas, contribute their own and join the journey to an energy-efficient, low-carbon future. About Shell Eco-marathon India Shell Eco-marathon is a competition for students who are passionate about developing innovative mobility solutions. It challenges engineering, design, science and technology students to design, build and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Teams from colleges/universities across India will compete in an exciting head-to-toe race to see who has the most energy-efficient vehicle. About Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, November 21, 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Enquiries: Shell India Media Relations Priyanka Dube Priyanka.dube@shell.com +91-9910385564 Team Averera from IIT-BHU clocks the best mileage at Shell’s ’Make the Future Live India 2019' Nov 22, 2019 Bengaluru : The second edition of Shell’s ‘Make the Future Live India 2019’, featuring the Shell Eco-marathon competition has drawn to a close. Of the 24 participating teams, team AVERERA from Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University clocked the best mileage of 387.9 km/kwh in the Battery electric prototype category. Members of the team said, “It feels great to be the champions again and retain the title in Shell Eco-marathon 2019. We have worked very hard to be where we are today and would like to thank all our supporters, sponsors and our institute. Shell events are always a challenge and we continue to learn and grow with every passing year. We would like to thank Shell for all the support, motivation and for providing this great opportunity to hone our capabilities.” Shell Eco-marathon results On-track Awards The list of the winning teams in each award category is as follows: Winner Result Battery Electric Prototype Team Averera Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University 387.9 km/kwh ICE Prototype Team ETA K.J. Somaiya College of Engineering 268.7 km/l ICE Urban Concept DTU Supermileage Delhi Technological University 141.4 km/l Off-track Awards This year, Shell Eco-marathon India had four awards in the ‘Off-track’ category: Communications, Technical Innovation, Safety, and Circular Economy. Communications Award Team Infieon Supermileage from SRM University, Chennai won the prize money of Rs 2,50,000 in this award category for executing an impactful communications campaign to promote their team in the competition. Technical Innovation Award Team Averera from Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University demonstrated exceptional technical ingenuity and innovation in developing their battery electric prototype. They were awarded prize money of Rs 2,50,000. Safety Award Team ETA from K.J. Somaiya College of Engineering, Mumbai was the winner in the award category for demonstrating exceptional behavioural safety and safe working practices both in the paddocks and on the track. The team was recognized for their overall approach to ensuring their own and other people’s safety during the competition. They won a prize money of Rs 2,50,000 for their efforts. Circular Economy Award The newly added ‘Circular Economy’ award was presented to team E^2 from Graphic Era University, Uttarakhand for demonstrating circular economy thinking in the concept, design and/or execution of vehicle production, functioning and/or disassembly process. The objective of this category is to motivate students to think how they can integrate the concept of circular economy in engineering materials, products and services for real-life industrial and consumer solutions. The team received Rs 2,50,000 in prize money. NXplorers Make the Future Live India also showcased several projects developed by students of the NXplorers program – Shell’s innovative educational programme focused on the food-water-energy nexus which aims to build awareness, develop knowledge and provide thinking tools and complex problem solving skills to the leaders of the future. Some of the projects on display included the Zero Carbon Electricity Generation model which involves capturing kinetic energy from students playing on sensors installed in school grounds to generate energy for school kitchen gardens, toilets and water faucets; a project which details integrated farming by diverting poultry and food waste for agriculture while generating biogas and electricity from available resources at the same time. Also on display was a unique project inspired from Namibian beetles, cactus plants and the insectivorous Pitcher plant, which enables it to collect water vapor from air and use it for irrigation. Notes to Editor About Make the Future Live India 2019 Held for the first time in India in 2018, Make the Future featuring Shell Eco-marathon, is a festival of ideas and innovation. It is a unique global platform for conversations, collaboration and innovations focused on world’s energy challenges. In India, the event focuses on “Powering progress in mobility, together”. The four-day event will feature bright energy ideas and solutions that address the global energy challenge: how to meet the energy demands of the future, while producing less CO2. Taking place at Shell Technology Centre Bengaluru (STCB) from November 19-22, 2019, the event will host thousands of visitors, inviting them to experience the ideas, contribute their own and join the journey to an energy-efficient, low-carbon future. About Shell Eco-marathon India Shell Eco-marathon is a competition for students who are passionate about developing innovative mobility solutions. It challenges engineering, design, science and technology students to design, build and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Teams from colleges/universities across India will compete in an exciting head-to-toe race to see who has the most energy-efficient vehicle. About Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, November 22, 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Enquiries: Shell India Media Relations Priyanka Dube Priyanka.dube@shell.com Edelman India Shivani Talwar shivani.talwar@edelman.com +91-9871521310 Shell India and VisionSpring win global award for #DriveSafeIndia campaign Dec 11, 2019 The Prince Michael Award Recognizes Outstanding Contributors to Improving Road Safety. New Delhi – Shell India and VisionSpring today announced that #DriveSafeIndia, a programme to provide screening and eyeglasses to more than 350 thousand Commercial Drivers and Allied Transportation Workers Across India, has been awarded the Prince Michael International Road Safety Award. The award recognises outstanding achievement and innovation world-wide towards improving road safety. The program has already screened the vision of 97,000 people in 40 cities and towns across India. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “We are honoured and humbled to receive this prestigious award that recognizes the significant progress we have made, and the focus we put on safety each and every day throughout our operations. Almost 75% of road fatalities in India are attributed to driver error. The #DriveSafeIndia program is a step forward in the right direction to create safer drivers across the country. The award does not belong to us alone, it belongs to every single one of the driver and transportation worker who walked into that camp and said ‘yes’ to safety and saving lives. We will continue building on the positive feedback and expand our road safety initiatives to benefit more road users.” The Prince Michael International Road Safety Awards have recognised outstanding achievement and innovation in the UK and across the world since 1987. Congratulating the winners, HRH Prince Michael of Kent said: ‘You have been judged by your peers to be amongst a unique group who are committed to improving the safety of those who travel on the world’s roads.’ In the program assessment conducted amongst 385 drivers, 83% drivers in glasses reported ‘no difficulty’ in being able to identify moving objects such as people and animals in low light conditions, an 144% increase from just 34% drivers prior to screening. Further, 85% drivers shared that after getting glasses they had “no difficulty” in judging speed and distance of vehicles coming from the opposite direction, up from only 37% of drivers without glasses which signifies a 130% increase. “We are truly honoured to receive this award” said Ella Gudwin, VisionSpring CEO. “Sometimes solutions to complicated problems like road safety are sitting, quite literally, right in front of our eyes. In this case, vision screening and eyeglasses are a simple, scalable solution that enables drivers to see hazards on the road. More importantly, we are reaching people who have never had a vision test before. In fact, 67% of participants are acquiring their very first pair of glasses through the program. Now, they can see well to stay safe.” After getting glasses for the first time in their lives, 76% of the drivers surveyed in the study articulated that driving safely and optimal job performance would be the most important results of their new clear vision. The assessment underscores the need for proactive interventions that effectively increase eyeglasses utilization among drivers in need of vision correction. Enquiries: Shell India Priyanka Dube Priyanka.dube@shell.com +91 9910385564 VisisonSpring Shobha Ramani Shobha.Ramani@VisionSpring.org +91 9990318556 Edelman India Shivani Talwar shivani.talwar@edelman.com +91 9871521310 Notes to Editors About Shell in India: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. About VisionSpring: VisionSpring is the pioneering, international social enterprise accelerating the uptake of affordable eyewear among people who earn less than $4 per day in emerging and frontier markets. Founded in 2001, VisionSpring uncovers latent demand for vision correction; conducts community, workplace and school vision screenings; trains others to do the same; and supplies radically affordable, durable eyeglasses. VisionSpring has delivered more than 5.5 million pairs of eyeglasses, providing vision correction in 43 countries with over 385 NGO, corporate, government and health partners. VisionSpring has been recognized for its innovative work, receiving multiple awards including the Skoll Award; social entrepreneur fellowships from Draper Richards Kaplan, the Aspen Institute, and the Schwab Foundation; and honors from World Bank, Duke University, Fast Company, and Tribeca Film Festival, among others. For more information, see visionspring.org Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, December 11, 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. After 25 years of operations, Shell, Reliance and ONGC JV transfer the Panna-Mukta fields back to ONGC Dec 19, 2019 Mumbai - After 25 years of operating the Panna-Mukta oil and gas fields, the Panna-Mukta and Tapti (PMT) Joint Venture partners will be handing over the Panna-Mukta oil and gas fields back to the Government of India’s nominee i.e. ONGC on 21st December 2019. The PMT JV constituents include Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC), Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) and BG Exploration & Production India Ltd (BGEPIL), each holding 40%, 30% and 30% participating interest respectively. The Production Sharing Contracts (PSC) for the Panna-Mukta and Tapti fields, which were executed by the PMT JV with the Government of India in 1994, will expire on December 21, 2019. The Tapti fields had ceased production earlier in 2016 and the Tapti process platform facilities were handed over to ONGC (GOI nominee) in 2016. Decommissioning and Site Restoration of residual Tapti facilities, including five unmanned platforms and in-field pipelines, are currently being carried out by the PMT JV under India’s first offshore Decommissioning & Site Restoration project. The Tapti Decommissioning and other commercial activities would continue in BGEPIL even after Panna-Mukta handover. The PMT fields were the first fields in India to be operated under a Joint Operatorship model. The Panna-Mukta fields, off the Mumbai coast, have produced 211 MMBBLs of Oil and 1.25 TCF of natural Gas since December 1994. In 2019, the average monthly production from the fields was ~10,000 bbls/day of crude oil and 140 mmscf/day of natural gas. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Trivikram Arun, Managing Director, BGEPIL said “The PMT JV is a great example of a successful partnership between India’s largest National Oil Company (ONGC), India’s largest private company (Reliance) and an International Oil Company (Shell). Shell is proud to have been part of this journey and privileged to have partnered with Reliance, ONGC and the Government of India. Our teams have worked relentlessly to ensure a safe handover of the producing fields from the PMT JV to ONGC at the end of the term”. Speaking on the occasion, Mr B Ganguly, President – E&P, Reliance Industries said “At their peak, Panna-Mukta have contributed to nearly 6 % of India’s Oil production and almost 7 % of India’s Gas production in the year 2007-08. Reliance has been part of this journey and contributed, by providing energy, to the growth and development of India’s oil and gas sector.” Enquiries: Shell India – Priyanka Dube; Priyanka.dube@shell.com; +91 9910385564 Reliance - Tushar Pania; Tushar.Pania@ril.com; +91 98200 88536 Notes to Editors About Shell: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 8500 employees and presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in R&D, digitalization and business operations. With a retail presence across six states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam Shell is expanding its network of fuel stations across the country. It has the entire Lubricants end-to-end value chain in India, from conceptualization and development, to production and distribution. This includes a world class lubricant oil blending plant with a capacity of more than 115 million litres, a distributor network of more than 185 and over 60,000 retailers across the country. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. With a focus on digitization and future ready sustainable solutions, the company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power and Cleantech Solar. Shell also remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how it is redefining the energy space. About Reliance: RIL is India’s largest private sector company, with a consolidated turnover of INR 622,809 crore ($90.1 billion), cash profit of INR 64,478 Crore ($9.3 billion), and net profit of INR 39,588 crore ($5.7 billion) for the year ended March 31, 2019. RIL’s activities span hydrocarbon exploration and production, petroleum refining and marketing, petrochemicals, retail and digital services. RIL is the top most ranked company from India to feature in Fortune’s Global 500 list of ‘World’s Largest Corporations’ – currently ranking 106th in terms of both revenues and profits. The company stands 71st in the ‘Forbes Global 2000’ rankings for 2019 – top-most among Indian companies. It ranks 10th among LinkedIn’s ‘The Best Companies to Work For In India’ (2019). Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, December 19, 2019. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. News and Media Releases 2018Media releases published in 2018 by Shell in India Shell invests in Cleantech Solar Dec 19, 2018 Shell has reached a conditional agreement to acquire 49% of Cleantech Solar. Shell’s global STEM education programme, NXplorers, comes to New Delhi Dec 18, 2018 2,60,000 students across 3000 schools in India to explore issues and design solutions to solve real-life problems around food-water-energy Shell’s Make the Future India ends with teams from Varanasi, Delhi and Vellore emerging winners at Shell Eco-marathon Dec 09, 2018 Chennai, India: The first edition of Make the Future India, featuring Shell Eco-marathon concluded today at Madras Motor Race Track, Chennai. Shell showcases the Global Vehicle Trust ‘OX’ at its marquee event Make the Future in Chennai Dec 08, 2018 Chennai, India: Shell India launches "OX to India" - a potential mobility solution for accessible, efficient, all-terrain transportation in developing regions Shell's Make The Future India 2018 accelerates conversation on future of mobility Dec 07, 2018 Chennai, India: The first edition of Make the Future India 2018, featuring the Shell Eco-marathon, kicked off today at the Madras Motor Race Track in Chennai. Karnataka Minister Shri Priyank Kharge announces grant worth Rs 50 lakh for start-ups with a social focus at Shell Energy Entrepreneurship conference 2018 Sep 03, 2018 Shell E4 start -up hub’s first cohort demonstrate energy and sustainability solutions at the conference Total prize money of Rs. 20 lacs for winners of Shell Eco-marathon to be held at the Make the Future festival, India Sep 03, 2018 Registration date extended to September 7, 2018 Shell India and Ministry of Road Transport and Highways roll out road safety program, #DriveSafeIndia to reach 5,000,000 millennials Aug 29, 2018 New Delhi, Shell Companies in India, in partnership with the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), Government of India, has rolled out #DriveSafeIndia, a behaviour change program to drive home the importance of safe driving practices aiming to reach 5 Million millennials leveraging social media and on ground activities. Shell signs binding Letter of Intent (LoI) to secure 100% equity in Hazira LNG & Port Companies 27 August 2018 Aug 27, 2018 New Delhi, India: Shell Gas B.V., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc (“Shell”), announced today that it has signed a binding Letter of Intent (LoI) with Total Gaz Electricité Holdings France (“Total”) to acquire its 26% equity in the Hazira LNG and Portventure in India, subject to regulatory approvals. Shell Dilutes Interest in Mahanagar Gas Limited Aug 23, 2018 Mumbai: Shell today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte Ltd (BGAPH) has continued with the dilution of its shareholding in the publicly listed Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) from 24% to now 10%. Shell’s TechTonic 2018 deliberates on Digitalisation in the oil & gas industry Aug 07, 2018 Bengaluru : A wave of digitalisation is sweeping through the Oil & Gas industry. From supermajors to small independent operators, new digital solutions are being implemented in areas as diverse as geological surveying, drilling and refining. The result is significant efficiency gains and cost savings. It is with this intent that Shell recently organised the second edition of its annual tech community event ‘TechTonic’ 2018 at the Shell IT Hub in Bengaluru, the largest IT hub for Shell globally. TechTonic is focused on inspiring learning about the entire hydrocarbon value chain of Shell, sparking new ideas through panel discussions, quiz competitions and masterclass sessions, and engaging the rich supplier and partner ecosystem. Megh Singh wins the Shell Global Driver of the Year Award 2017 Jun 20, 2018 Award recognizes drivers on safe driving practices that lead the way for others. Shell brings Make The Future festival to India for the first time Jun 13, 2018 Shell Eco-marathon (SEM) challenges student teams around the world to design, build, test and drive ultra-energy-efficient vehicles. SEM will be part of Make the Future India, a platform for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges. Shell Lubricants India Jun 09, 2018 Shell lubricant in the no.1 lubricant supplier and a 70- year history of innovation. The company has its presence in various industries worldwide, including metal, mining, power generation and home energy. Shell Lubricants and Hyundai complete a decade of partnership in India May 18, 2018 Extend contract for the next 3 years; Launch new engine oil for Hyundai Customers. Shell Lubricants unveils the ‘Power of Partnerships’ campaign to celebrate industry Collaboration and partnerships May 16, 2018 Extends its brand promise of ‘Together Anything is Possible’ to help the industry achieve operational efficiency together Shell India awarded United Nation’s Best Innovative Practices award 2018 for “Women at Workplace” category May 11, 2018 New Delhi, Shell India received United Nation’s Best Innovative Practices award for “Women at Workplace” category at the United Nations Global Compact Network India(UNGCNI) Gender Equality Summit 2018. This is a recognition of Shell’s ongoing efforts in creating a more diverse and inclusive workplace where women are consistently provided opportunities to advance their careers whilst maintaining a healthy work-life balance. Shell Lubricants India Announces Free Health Camps for truck drivers and mechanics to Celebrate Road Safety Week 2018 May 03, 2018 Enhancing ‘on-road’ safety with focus on driver health Fully Synthetic, State of the art, Shell Helix HX8 now available in India Apr 16, 2018 Engine protection that adapts to every drive. Shell brings the Global Vehicle Trust OX: the inventive flat-pack truck, to India Apr 11, 2018 New Delhi: Shell has announced that it will commission a pre-production prototype of the world’s first flat-pack truck and it will take this truck to India, which is home to almost 18% of the world’s population1. The ‘OX to India’ mission will showcase the capabilities of the vehicle for bringing low-cost all-terrain mobility to rural communities in developing countries. Shell Dilutes Interest in Mahanagar Gas Limited Apr 11, 2018 Mumbai: Shell today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte Ltd (BGAPH) has diluted its shareholding in the publicly listed Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) from 32.50% equity to 24.0% equity shares. Shell E4 welcomes its first cohort of 5 start-ups designing solutions to power a sustainable india Mar 26, 2018 Bangalore: Shell E4 (Energizing and Enabling Energy Entrepreneurs) accelerator programme has selected five innovative start-ups amongst hundreds of applicants as its first cohort in India. Delhi Technological University wins the communications award at Shell Make the Future, Singapore Mar 20, 2018 New Delhi: Shell Companies in India is proud to announce that Delhi Technological University (DTU) Supermileage team won the Off-Track Communications Award 2018 at the just concluded Shell Eco Marathon 2018 in Singapore. Indian Students to compete in Singapore as Shell's Make the Future Festival returns for a second year Feb 28, 2018 Make the Future Singapore returns for a second year, showcasing bright ideas and innovations that address the global energy challenge as part of a four-day public festival. 10 futuristic cars from India will challenge their peers on the track with their own energy-efficient designs at the 2018 edition of the Shell Eco-marathon. Over 120 student teams from Asia Pacific and the Middle East competing in the Asian leg of this worldwide programme Shell sees potential LNG supply shortage as global demand surges Feb 26, 2018 Fully Synthetic, State of the art, Shell Helix HX8 now available in India Apr 16, 2018 Engine protection that adapts to every drive Product Highlights: Made using Flexi Molecule Technology suited to adapt to severe driving conditions and provide complete protection to engines Produced from 100 percent synthetic base stock to achieve higher performance levels Enhanced fuel economy, reduced emissions with less frequent top ups and cost savings Suitable for gasoline, diesel, gas engines Mumbai, April 16, 2018: Shell Lubricants, the global leader in finished lubricants, today announced the launch of the fully synthetic ‘Shell Helix HX8’. In India it is suitable for all cars including SUV’s, hatchbacks, sedans, MUVs. With multiple benefits for drivers - ‘Shell Helix HX8’ forms protective barriers around critical and high-risk engine parts, providing 40% better wear and 78% better corrosion protection as well as 58% better oxidation stability and high-temperature deposit control versus industry reference oil. Priced at MRP 850/Litre, the synthetic engine oil is available in packs of 3.5L, 4.5L 1L, across India. Launching the new ‘Shell Helix HX8,’ Mansi Tripathy, Country General Manager, Shell Lubricants, India, said, “The engine is the heart of a vehicle and needs to be protected by right engine oil for better performance, longer life and above all, ensuring a smooth drive. We have seen the trend that consumers are actively shifting to synthetic motor oils. India’s automotive car segment is growing at about 9% per year whereas SUVs are growing at an astounding rate of more than 30% per year. (Source SIAM/ Industry estimates 2016-17). Most SUVs are powered by turbocharged engines that provide higher power output for smaller capacity which means higher stress on vital engine parts. Therefore, we identified the need of engine oil which adapts to severe conditions and protects the engine in every drive. With ‘Shell Helix HX8’, we will be able to cater to the changing demand of the consumers and strengthen our commitment to Indian market and expand our portfolio.” Car engines are exposed to diverse terrains and harsh conditions such as city congestion, highway acceleration, steep climbs and cold starts. However, standard engine oils are not equipped to handle these conditions and might not be able to adapt to provide the required protection to engines. Derived from 100% synthetic base stock that houses fewer unwanted components, ‘Shell Helix HX8’ with Flexi Molecule Technology is suited to adapt to severe driving conditions and provide complete protection to engines. The dynamic Flexi Molecules in Shell Helix HX8 activate in response to changes in engine stress levels, enhancing fuel economy and engine longevity by activating when the pressure is on. Overall, this results in a 30% faster flow in low temperatures allowing the oils to reach critical engine parts quickly for easier starting and warm up. With advanced technology, Helix HX8 is the latest addition to Shell’s Global ‘Drive On’ campaign. This campaign is a rallying cry for drivers to re-connect across the world and reignite their passion for driving. Notes To Editors About Shell Lubricants The term ‘Shell Lubricants’ collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Shell Rimula, and Shell Spirax. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants, we blend base oils with additives to make finished lubricants in almost 70 plants, and we distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We have more experts talking to more customers than any other lubricants supplier. We have over 350 technical support specialists and 1,000 sales professionals working with customers every day. We offer a wide range of services in addition to our products, including Shell LubeMatch, a market leading online tool that matches lubricants to vehicles and equipment, and Shell LubeAnalyst, an early warning system that enables our business customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance. Shell’s world-class technology is applied in our products and technological collaborations. We have four leading lubricants research centres in Germany, the USA, and Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell) with more than 200 scientists and engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. We have 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari and Penske Racing. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. About Shell Lubricants India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business services centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Earlier this year, it signed MOUs for a floating LNG terminal in the country. Shell also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. It recently announced creation of an in-house global IT centre in Bengaluru. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India – Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India – Shivani Talwar; shivani.talwar@edelman.com; +91 9871521310 Cautionary Note: The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, April 16, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this presentation that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. You can also obtain these forms from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Delhi Technological University wins the communications award at Shell Make the Future, Singapore Mar 20, 2018 Team Averera of IIT-BHUs recognised for Travel Safety. New Delhi: Shell Companies in India is proud to announce that Delhi Technological University (DTU) Supermileage team won the Off-Track Communications Award 2018 at the just concluded Shell Eco Marathon 2018 in Singapore. A part of the four-day Shell Make the Future annual event that showcases energy innovations for better living for Asia, Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 is a competition that challenges student teams to design, build, test and drive ultra-energy-efficient vehicles. Speaking on the occasion, Mr Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, “We are proud of the nine student teams from India who represented the country at Shell Eco Marathon 2018. DTU Supermileage have done a commendable job of creating awareness and engaging a diverse set of audiences around the need for cleaner and fuel- efficient mobility solutions. I hope talented minds such as these will make India a destination for innovations in, efficient and sustainable transportation solutions.” Team Supermileage from DTU created an infectious energy around the competition through their personalised and integrated communications reaching the student community, opinion leaders, neighbouring communities across India. They brought to life the story of the team and their efforts to create the car they raced across online and offline channels. They took it a step further by going into neighbouring communities to drive home the Eco-marathon and fuel efficiency story through games and competitions. The winners of the Shell Eco-marathon ‘urban concept’ go on to participate in the Driver’s World Championship. This year three teams - SEMAR URBAN UGM INDONESIA from Universitas Gadjah Mada, ITS Team 2 from Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember and GARUDA UNY ECO TEAM from Universitas Negeri Yogyakarta will be participating at the global DWC event to be held in London later this year. Speaking about the Drivers’ World Championship Mr Norman Koch, General Manager, Shell Eco-Marathon, said, “The Drivers’ World Championship demands the best in automotive technology and innovation to push the boundaries of energy efficiency. Sharp skills and a sound strategy in handling the vehicle and managing fuel efficiency are imperative in helping the team cross the finish line first. We saw amazing action and excitement today and my accolades goes to all the teams.” Notes to Editors: To access event images, please visit the following URL: https://www.flickr.com/photos/shell_eco-marathon/. 2018 Shell Eco-marathon Asia Results Prototype Category Winner Result Internal Combustion Engine Panjavidhya1 Panjavidhya Technological College (Thailand) 2,341.1 km/l Battery Electric Huaqi-EV Guangzhou College of South China University of Technology (China) 511.0 km/kWh Hydrogen Fuel Cell TP ECO FLASH Temasek Polytechnic (Singapore) 404.3 km/m3 UrbanConcept Category Winner Result Internal Combustion Engine ITS Team 2 Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember (Indonesia) 314.5 km/l Battery Electric LH – EST Lac Hong University (Vietnam) 129.3 km/kWh Hydrogen Fuel Cell NTU Singapore 3D-Printed Car Nanyang Technological University (Singapore) 46.0 km/m3 Drivers’ World Championship Asia Podium Finish Team Country 1st SEMAR URBAN UGM INDONESIA Universitas Gadjah Mada Indonesia 2nd ITS Team 2 Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember Indonesia 3rd GARUDA UNY ECO TEAM Universitas Negeri Yogyakarta Indonesia 2018 Shell Eco-marathon Asia Off-track Awards About Make the Future Singapore Shell’s Make the Future Singapore, featuring Shell Eco-marathon Asia, returned to Singapore for a second year from March 8-11, 2018. As a festival of ideas and innovation for Asia, this event has the widest geographical reach, accounting for more than 60% of the world’s population. Headlining the event was the Shell Eco-marathon Asia, where futuristic and fuel-efficient cars built by over 120 student teams from the Asia Pacific and the Middle East region competed to be the most energy-efficient. Make the Future Festivals is Shell’s global platform for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges. With events hosted in countries around the globe, they aim to provide an opportunity for multiple stakeholders: including students, entrepreneurs, businesses, governments and the public, to experience, test and contribute bright energy ideas. About Shell Eco-marathon One of the world’s longest-running student competitions, Shell Eco-marathon is a global programme that challenges bright student minds to design and build ultra-energy-efficient cars, and then put them to the test in competition. Shell Eco-marathon Asia includes two key competitions. The longest running competition is the Mileage Challenge where teams compete to travel the farthest on the least amount of fuel. In 2017, the winning team of the Asian leg was efficient enough to travel 2,289 kilometres – the distance from Singapore to Chiang Mai, Thailand – on just one litre of fuel! The second Shell Eco-marathon competition in Singapore is Drivers’ World Championship Asia. Introduced to the Shell Eco-marathon programme in 2016, Drivers’ World Championship challenges the best UrbanConcept teams to combine the proven energy efficiency of their car with the speed and skill of their driver, in a race to see who can cross the finish line first on the least amount of fuel. Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Enquiries: Priyanka Dube External Relations Country Advisor, Shell India +91 99103 85564/ priyanka.dube@shell.com Arpita Kedia Account Manager, Edelman India +91 98719 34147/ arpita.kedia@edelman.com Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations” respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. There can be no assurance that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this announcement. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2016 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, March 12, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell E4 welcomes its first cohort of 5 start-ups designing solutions to power a sustainable india Mar 26, 2018 Bangalore: Shell E4 (Energizing and Enabling Energy Entrepreneurs) accelerator programme has selected five innovative start-ups amongst hundreds of applicants as its first cohort in India. Launched in September 2017, Shell E4 aims to co-create solutions that have the potential to accelerate energy transition and build a more sustainable India and world. The five selected start-ups include Detect Technologies, ION Energy, IoTrek, Trashcon and Ossus Biorenewables. The teams are working on a diverse range of solutions including real-time pipeline monitoring, creating safer and smarter infrastructure and outdoor work sites, automating segregation of municipal solid waste, recovering green chemicals from waste water and building energy storage systems and infrastructure for electric vehicles. Welcoming the first set of innovators, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, “We are excited about working with our first cohort on solutions that balance individual needs of energy, food and water with societal demands for clean air, waste management, mobility, safety and others. Shell E4 furthers our commitment to nurture the innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystem in the country. We will continue to evolve the programme to support solutions that can help India access more and cleaner energy and drive sustainable growth.” Located at Shell Technology Centre Bangalore, one of the company’s three global innovation hubs, Shell E4 will house the teams at a vibrant co-working space for six months. It offers each start-up a seed funding of US $20,000 and access to: State-of-the-art testing and prototyping laboratories for product development and testing Bootcamps aimed at customer discovery and improving the product Top industry mentors and experts New markets and interactions with investors and other growth and funding opportunities In addition, the teams can tap into Shell’s large global partner network at multiple industry events and engagements that have been planned as part of the curriculum. At the end of the six-month programme they will have the opportunity to pitch to top investors from India and outside. They will also meet with an array of decision makers on a Demo Day specially designed for the occasion in the latter part of the year. After the cohort graduates, they will continue their relationship with the programme through the Shell E4 alumni network. Applications for Shell E4 second cohort are now open for entrepreneurs, startups with innovative business models, technology ideas and products to create a tangible difference in the cleaner energy space. The startup should be in early, pilot, or post-pilot stages. The deadline for sending applications is 31st March 2018. For more details visit www.shell.in/ShellE4 Shell E4 First Cohort: A snapshot Detect Technologies This Chennai-based startup focuses on asset integrity management, especially in the conventional oil and gas industry, and has already built a unique, patented technology for pipeline condition monitoring in real-time, using a long-range ultrasonic sensor for temperatures of up to 350 degrees Celsius. This solution will help reduce massive productivity losses in case of a breach. Along with this, the company also provides Noctuan intelligent solution for structural health monitoring on hard-to-reach assets such as stacks, columns, pipe racks, vessels, tanks, boilers, chimneys etc. and has several Fortune 500 companies as their clients. Founders Daniel Raj David, Tarun Kumar Mishra, Harikrishnan AS, Karthik R, are all IIT Madras alumni who, along with their Professor Krishnan Balasubramanian, bring a wealth of experience in research, management and execution for the company. ION Energy ION Energy is building cutting-edge energy storage systems and infrastructure for the adoption of high performance electric vehicles. With offices in India, USA and now France, ION leverages deep proprietary technology that merges their strengths in design, electro mechanics, battery management systems and software. Apart from deploying their own systems and infrastructure, ION will license a chemistry-agnostic and extensively cascadable architecture that enables rapid product development for customers that demand high quality battery systems. IoTrek IoTrek is developing technology solutions to make infrastructure and outdoor work-sites safe and smart, by using intelligent sensors, low power wireless networks and machine learning software. Founded by IIT-Roorkee alumni Piyush Vishwakarma (CEO), Kamran Alam (CTO) and Prerak Ujgare (COO), IoTrek is building solutions such as a "connected workforce" for the construction industry. The startup is working closely with some large construction companies in the US and India to improve the safety as well as productivity of field sites. IoTrek has come up with ultra-low power tracking devices embedded with motion sensors to connect people and assets in real time over long-range wireless network infrastructure. It aims to save millions of dollars per year in operations for infrastructure companies by implementing various use cases on single network infrastructure. Trashcon A Bengaluru-based startup, Trashcon, founded by Nivedha RM, has created Trashbot, an automated municipal solid waste segregator that separates municipal solid waste (MSW) into biodegradable, non-biodegradable, metals, and rejects components of mixed MSW mechanically. The segregator can process up to 300-400 kgs of MSW/hour, recovering up to 85-98 percent of biodegradables and more than 95 percent of non-biodegradables. Any kind of mixed waste is dumped into the hopper and the waste is segregated instantaneously. With an inbuilt IoT technology, Trashbot consumes relatively less energy compared to conventional segregators, minimizes manual intervention and enables quick processing of large volumes of waste. Trashbots are installed at various wards across the city to prevent dumping of wastes on the streets and pathways, and thus prevent choking of water and sewage channels, which have resulted in flooding during heavy rains. Ossus Biorenewables This Bengaluru-based startup is creating solutions for clean energy and recovery of green chemicals from waste water. They are focused on assetizing waste water through, bH2 plus, a technology employing specially-designed microbial cell factories, for generating biohydrogen and metals from renewable feedstocks like industrial effluents, municipal sewage and polluted water bodies. With the potential to be retro-fitted to storage tanks, effluent treatment plants or installed directly in-situ for the restoration of polluted rivers, lakes, and other bodies of water, this startup is creating an end-to-end green solution for valorising the utilizable energy present in waste water. Founded by Dr. Suruchi Rao and Shanta Rao in 2017, Ossus Biorenewables is currently in the process of demonstrating the elemental capability of their technology for generating value from produced water, an effluent generated by upstream oil and gas companies. Notes to Editors: Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas and condensate fields (PMT fields). Shell also holds a 32.5% equity stake in Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL). MGL has to its credit the distinction of pioneering the natural gas distribution network in Mumbai and its neighboring areas. Shell’s Global Technology Network Shell Technology Centre Bangalore is one of three global technology hubs, alongside those in Houston, USA and Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. They form part of an integrated network of technology centres, which includes several smaller centres located close to our customers and other partners and provide tailored services. Enquiries: Arpita Kedia, Edelman India arpita.kedia@edelman.com / +91- 9871934147 Shell Dilutes Interest in Mahanagar Gas Limited Apr 11, 2018 Mumbai: Shell today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte Ltd (BGAPH) has diluted its shareholding in the publicly listed Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) from 32.50% equity to 24.0% equity shares. This is part of Shell’s ongoing portfolio optimization to transform Shell into a simpler company, delivering stronger returns. We believe in the key role that gas will play in India and continue to seek opportunities in that arena. Our investment in the Hazira LNG receiving terminal in Gujarat and the recent creation of Shell Energy India, our gas marketing and trading business, shows our commitment to grow in India and to increase gas penetration in the country. The other shareholders of MGL are GAIL (India) Limited (GAIL), who holds 32.50% of MGL’s equity shares, the Government of Maharashtra with 10% and the Public Shareholders with 25% in MGL, respectively. This announcement has no impact on other Shell businesses in India. Shell believes that India offers a vast opportunity for growth for Shell’s businesses and we will continue to pursue opportunities which can enhance Shell footprint in the country including in the retail network and our custom-built Technology and IT Centre in Bangalore. The ever-growing energy demand in the country is an indication and call for advanced technology and innovation in the sector which Shell sees it as an important role to play. Shell looks forward to playing a significant part in the energy transition in India. Enquiries: Nishi Oswal Shell India Markets Private Limited +91-9820075465 / nishi.oswal@shell.com Rupali Pant Edelman India Private Limited +91-8377860539/ rupali.pant@edelman.com Notes to Editors: Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas and condensate fields (PMT fields). Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, April 11, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell brings the Global Vehicle Trust OX: the inventive flat-pack truck, to India Apr 11, 2018 Shell is collaborating with Gordon Murray Design to make this mission happenNew Delhi: Shell has announced that it will commission a pre-production prototype of the world’s first flat-pack truck and it will take this truck to India, which is home to almost 18% of the world’s population1. The ‘OX to India’ mission will showcase the capabilities of the vehicle for bringing low-cost all-terrain mobility to rural communities in developing countries. The ‘OX to India’ mission is a partnership between Shell and Gordon Murray Design (GMD), working in close alignment with the Global Vehicle Trust (GVT). This represents a crucial development stage of the vehicle, which was officially launched in 2016. Shell will fund a bespoke prototype OX to take to India and will set up an outreach programme once the vehicle is in India. The vehicle will be re-engineered and built by GMD, and flat-packed for shipment to India in the later part of 2018. The OX, based on GMD’s flexible iStream® technology, will run exclusively on Shell fluids including Shell Rimula, a hard-working and high-performing diesel engine oil designed to help heavy duty and light duty engines to run efficiently in demanding conditions. “Shell is eager to play a role alongside others in developing and promoting mobility solutions in developing regions. The OX to India demonstration will see the concept validated and discussed on the ground in a real world setting. We know limited mobility in hard-to-reach communities in developing economies can restrict access to basic services and can limit the effectiveness of efforts to improve the quality of life. The OX has the potential to broaden access to transport possibilities and all the resulting benefits that come with this,” said Huibert Vigeveno, Executive Vice President, Shell Global Commercial. The OX is designed to carry a payload of 1,900kg (approximately twice the capacity of most current pick-ups), which could include everyday necessities, medical supplies, building and agriculture materials. It can seat up to 13 people. The vehicle was envisioned by entrepreneur and philanthropist Sir Torquil Norman and designed by renowned automotive engineer Professor Gordon Murray. Other innovative features of the OX include: Lightweight, rugged and durable design to maximise payload for goods and people Low cost, simple maintenance through accessible components and fewer parts Designed for self-assembly, supplied fully assembled or flat-packed for easy shipping and local assembly Sir Torquil Norman, founder of GVT said: “I’m so pleased to welcome Shell aboard the OX project and for sharing GVT's vision that this remarkable and versatile vehicle will provide a transformation in affordable mobility for so many people where the need is most acute. With Shell taking the OX to India we can demonstrate its capability in a key market, which will help attract long-term production partners.” Professor Gordan Murray, Executive Chairman, GMD said: “After our highly successful co-engineering Shell Concept Car programme with Shell, it is exciting to be once again working with Shell on the next phase of this extremely important and ground-breaking project. The OX is one of our most important engineering designs and it is certainly the vehicle of which I am most proud of, as its disruptive design has the potential to change the current mobility model and with Shell’s vision this vehicle could go on to improve so many people’s lives.” Recognising the need for sustainable, cleaner and more energy efficient transportation solutions, Shell is collaborating and co-engineering a number of projects. In 2016, Shell partnered with Gordon Murray to co-engineer the Shell Concept Car – an ultra-efficient city vehicle that, compared to a typical city car, uses 34% less primary energy over its entire lifetime. Shell is also partnering with AirFlow Truck Company to develop a new hyper-fuel mileage Class 8 truck known as the Starship. Its aerodynamic design will seek to demonstrate improvements in fuel economy for while lowering CO2 emissions. Enquiries: Nishi Oswal Shell India Markets Private Limited +91-9820075465 / nishi.oswal@shell.com Rupali Pant Edelman India Private Limited +91-8377860539/ rupali.pant@edelman.com Notes to Editors: 1Source: United Nations, World Population Prospects: The 2017 Revision Link to images of OX: https://www.flickr.com/photos/royaldutchshell/albums/72157671223809135 The OX’s revolutionary nature extends beyond the vehicle design because, uniquely, it is capable of being flat-packed within itself, enabling it to be transported more efficiently around the world. It takes three people less than six hours to create the flat pack in the UK prior to shipping, and six of these flat packs can be shipped within a 40ft high-cube container. Assembly labour is transferred to the importing country, where local professional companies will be employed to assemble and maintain the finished vehicles. Three skilled people can put an OX together in approximately 12 hours. The overall vehicle length is far shorter than a large SUV, and yet it can carry a payload of 1900kg (approximately twice the capacity of most current pick-ups) with a load volume of 9.0 m3. Based on EU size guidelines, it can seat up to 13 people or carry eight 44-gallon drums or three Euro-pallets. Figures are based upon production targets. For more information visit: http://oxgvt.com/ Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. About Gordon Murray Design Limited Gordon Murray Design Limited is a British company operating from Shalford, Surrey. The Company is recognised as a world leader in automotive design and reverses the current industry trend for sub-contracting by having a complete in-house capability for design, engineering, prototyping and development. The Company is compact and focused and undertakes automotive and other engineering programmes in an efficient and innovative way. For more information please visit www.gordonmurraydesign.com. The iStream® technology is a complete rethink and redesign of the traditional automotive manufacturing process and could potentially be the biggest revolution in high volume manufacture since the Model T. Development. The process began over 15 years ago and it has already won the prestigious ‘Idea of the Year’ award from Autocar who were given privileged access in order to make their assessment. The simplified assembly process means that the manufacturing plant can be designed to be 20% of the size of a conventional factory. This could reduce capital investment in the assembly plant by approximately 80%. Yet the flexibility of this assembly process means that the same factory could be used to manufacture different variants. The iStream® design process is a complete re-think on high volume materials, as well as the manufacturing process and will lead to a significant reduction in full lifecycle CO2. For more information please visit www.istreamtechnology.co.uk About the Global Vehicle Trust In 2010, Sir Torquil Norman founded the Global Vehicle Trust (GVT) to pursue his ambition to help people in the developing world by providing cost-effective mobility for all. The GVT subsequently briefed renowned automotive designer Professor Gordon Murray on a unique humanitarian programme to create a revolutionary lightweight truck. As part of an aid programme, the Global Vehicle Trust OX could provide an essential element of infrastructure to enable the local population to raise the community’s standard of living, and to assert its independence by gaining control of its transportation needs and costs. Sir Torquil Norman is a former pilot, banker, company executive and toy manufacturing entrepreneur. He is a passionate philanthropist, and is chiefly responsible for the rescue and renovation of The Roundhouse in Camden, north London. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, 11 April 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell Lubricants unveils the ‘Power of Partnerships’ campaign to celebrate industry Collaboration and partnerships May 16, 2018 Extends its brand promise of ‘Together Anything is Possible’ to help the industry achieve operational efficiency together Mumbai, May 15, 2018 – Shell Lubricants, the global market leader in finished lubricants, today launched “Power of Partnerships” in Mumbai, to encourage industry collaboration and harness relationships to achieve operational efficiency together. The campaign is an extension of ‘Together, Anything is Possible’ (TAIP), the first global brand positioning for Shell B2B Lubricants, introduced last year. Moving forward from TAIP which first introduced the concept of reducing ‘Total Cost of Ownership’ (TCO),[1] ‘Power of Partnerships’ aims to demonstrate the significance of powerful collaborations in advancing industries and helping companies overcome their challenges now and in the future. Highlighting the message of forging strong alliances, Shell launched ‘The Bat Doctor’ video, featuring Mr. Ram Bhandari, a celebrity bat doctor, who has made bats for cricketers like Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid, to name a few. The video demonstrates the importance of striking the right partnerships across situations to brew a solution for success; just as the cricketers’ bats were instrumental to their own. The video can be viewed at https://youtu.be/BMxQFoozPoM. As part of its renewed focus on building greater collaboration with customers, Shell Lubricants undertook a study to understand lubrication practices in the manufacturing and construction sectors in India. Findings reveal that India’s manufacturers are engaged and optimistic about Industry 4.0 technologies[2], with 46% of those surveyed anticipating that the resulting savings could exceed INR 33 million. India’s construction companies on the other hand recognise the benefits of a proactive maintenance approach but are not necessarily succeeding in its implementation. 86% of those surveyed believe that effective equipment maintenance can lead to cost savings, but 82% still feel that maintenance is often deprioritised until there is a breakdown. An absence of senior management engagement in the importance of maintenance has come to light as one barrier to effective preventative action. The findings shed significant light on lack of expertise, third-party support combined with under-resourced teams, hindering the widespread uptake of new technologies and effective lubrication practices. There are also concerns about the implications on Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) with majority companies expecting TCO to increase as a result of introducing new technologies. In light of this, collaboration will be key to unlocking progress. Optimising lubrication can have a significant impact on component life, maintenance costs, and unplanned downtime, and as such, can contribute to reduced Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) and improved equipment productivity. With the ‘Power of Partnerships’ campaign, Shell Lubricants, together with OEMs and industry experts, aims to help bridge the gap, with the industry knowledge, people & expertise, and strong relationships to help deliver value to customers and support them in daily maintenance challenges. Shell today offers its expert technical services, including a mobile chat application called LubeChat, designed to help customers upskill their teams and provide the services they need to implement effective equipment lubrication. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Troy Chapman – Vice President, Global B2B and OEM Marketing, Shell Lubricants said, “As a part of our continuing promise on building greater collaborations with our customers, Shell Lubricants has undertaken an extensive exercise to understand the current lubrication practices and core challenges that affect industrial operations. Companies realise that proper maintenance is important but are not set up to succeed. Maintenance teams are under strain, and lacking knowledge around effective lubrication. Hence, we are aligning our Global outlook to reach out to our customers better, offer our people expertise to ensure we can all power progress together.” Adding to this, Ms. Mansi Tripathy, Country Head of Shell Lubricants India Cluster said, “At Shell Lubricants, we pride ourselves on working closely together with customers to help improve their equipment maintenance practices and enhance their competitive advantage, now and in the future. This sharing of expertise will become only more valuable to help companies navigate the changes that lie ahead. We have helped companies in India achieve cost savings of close to INR 57 crores as of today, helping them enhance their competitive advantage.” [1] Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is defined by Shell Lubricants as the total amount spent on industrial equipment, including cost of acquisition and operation over its entire working life, including costs of lost production during equipment downtime [2]Industry 4.0 technologies are defined as technologies that support the digitisation and automation of manufacturing operations (e.g. sensors, connected equipment, autonomous equipment, robotics, cloud based or big data-based technologies) Notes to Editors About Shell Lubricants The term ‘Shell Lubricants’ collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Shell Rimula, and Shell Advance. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants, we blend base oils with additives to make finished lubricants in almost 70 plants, and we distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We have more experts talking to more customers than any other lubricants supplier. We have over 350 technical support specialists and 1,000 sales professionals working with customers every day. We offer a wide range of services in addition to our products, including Shell LubeMatch, a market leading online tool that matches lubricants to vehicles and equipment, and Shell LubeAnalyst, an early warning system that enables our business customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance. Shell’s world-class technology is applied in our products and technological collaborations. We have four leading lubricants research centres in Germany, the USA, and Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell) with more than 200 scientists and engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. We have 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari and Penske Racing. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. About Shell Lubricants India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 7000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business services centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Earlier this year, it signed MOUs for a floating LNG terminal in the country. Shell also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. It recently announced creation of an in-house global IT centre in Bengaluru. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India Shivani Talwar; shivani.talwar@edelman.com; +91 9871521310 Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, April 16, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell Lubricants India Announces Free Health Camps for truck drivers and mechanics to Celebrate Road Safety Week 2018 May 03, 2018 Enhancing ‘on-road’ safety with focus on driver health New Delhi, May 3, 2018 – Shell Lubricants India announced health camps for truck drivers and mechanics, commencing from 26 April 2018, as part of their National Road Safety Week celebrations. Held at the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Delhi, the health camps are aimed at encouraging regular heath check-ups for truck drivers and its importance for their ‘on-road’ performance. Inaugurated by Ms. Mansi Madan Tripathy, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India Cluster and Mr. Gareth Flood, Chief Marketing Officer, Shell Lubricants India, the Delhi health camp is the first of five that will be introduced at various locations across India. The Delhi camp witnessed over 200 participants on the first day and is set to continue for a month. Truck drivers are provided free health examinations and counsel, after testing for BMI, blood pressure and sugar levels among other vitals. These are administered under the supervision of trusted medical service providers. Shell realizes that truck drivers work long hours and often neglect their health, investing most of what they earn towards the wellbeing of their family. This intervention by Shell is a testament to their commitment towards ensuring a holistic development of their driver partners and mechanics and contributing to a safe driving environment. The health camps will address the health needs of truck drivers and contribute to their overall well-being and driving performance while potentially preventing accidents. Commenting on the initiative, Ms. Mansi Madan Tripathy, said, “At Shell India, we believe that ensuring road safety is imperative for all. Extending this belief across our operations, we not only strive to provide premium care to our valuable partners across operations, but also aim to give our best to the society at large. This initiative is an attempt to celebrate the unsung heroes who work tirelessly to deliver an exceptional standard of service. We are positive that our attendees will find these camps beneficial and adopt recommended health check-ups as a regular practice.” Shell is also inviting truck drivers, mechanics and their families to participate in health camps in Agra, Jaipur, Lucknow and Ambala, in its endeavor to spread awareness about the importance of being healthy and safe on the road. Notes to Editors About Shell Lubricants The term ‘Shell Lubricants’ collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Shell Rimula, and Shell Advance. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants, we blend base oils with additives to make finished lubricants in almost 70 plants, and we distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We have more experts talking to more customers than any other lubricants supplier. We have over 350 technical support specialists and 1,000 sales professionals working with customers every day. We offer a wide range of services in addition to our products, including Shell LubeMatch, a market leading online tool that matches lubricants to vehicles and equipment, and Shell LubeAnalyst, an early warning system that enables our business customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance. Shell’s world-class technology is applied in our products and technological collaborations. We have four leading lubricants research centres in Germany, the USA, and Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell) with more than 200 scientists and engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. We have 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari and Penske Racing. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. About Shell Lubricants India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 7000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business services centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Earlier this year, it signed MOUs for a floating LNG terminal in the country. Shell also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. It recently announced creation of an in-house global IT centre in Bengaluru. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India Shivani Talwar; shivani.talwar@edelman.com; +91 9871521310 Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, April 16, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell Lubricants and Hyundai complete a decade of partnership in India May 18, 2018 Extend contract for the next 3 years; Launch new engine oil for Hyundai Customers New Delhi – Shell Lubricants, the global market share leader in finished lubricants and Hyundai Motor India Limited (HMIL), the country’s second largest car manufacturer recently announced 10 Years of their partnership in India. The partnership stands as a testament to Shell’s commitment of delivering excellence by continuing to focus on providing the best and cleanest products and solutions to customers. The synthetic technology used by Shell Lubricants helps achieve higher performance levels than the mineral lubricants. Ms. Mansi Madan Tripathy, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India Cluster said, “Shell Lubricants has been working with Hyundai since 2008 to deliver premium quality products and services to partners and customers. Our shared values of customer centricity, and a strong focus on growth has helped us progress together in the last 10 years. This partnership has only expanded over time, and we look forward to another decade of industry-leading collaboration. Not only has our partnership stood the test of time, but truly redefines exemplary customer service and pioneering global best practices.” Mr. Y.K. Koo, Managing Director, HMIL added, “Hyundai and Shell have progressed together for the last 10 years in the true spirit of partnership through collaboration and innovation with a common goal to maximize customer satisfaction. Hyundai’s long-term vision is to be the customers’ lifetime partner in automobile and beyond. By leveraging the strengths of the two global brands, we aspire to offer outstanding aftersales experiences to Hyundai customers and look forward to fostering this strong and trusted association in future.” The two organizations announced the extension of their contract for another 3 years during which they will continue to collaborate to improve both the driving as well as the servicing experiences for customers and their Hyundai cars. On this occasion, Shell Lubricants and Hyundai launched the Shell Helix HX7 AH – A synthetic technology motor oil, in for the Franchise workshop network. Shell Helix HX7 promises to help keep Hyundai engines clean and efficient, preventing the formation of sludge & engine deposits. It also enhances fuel efficiency and helps engines to deliver better performance. A commemoration event, held at The Leela, Chanakyapuri on 25th April, celebrated their joint work in innovation and global best practices. Hosted by the Shell team, the event witnessed a significant number of attendees from both the companies including industry stalwarts like Mr. Y.K. Koo and Ms. Mansi Tripathy, among others. The event witnessed sessions discussing the power of their enduring partnership, future product launches, and future perspectives from both companies. The distinguished Shell Lubricants and Hyundai leadership team also participated in a signing ceremony. Shell has provided constant support to the Hyundai team and forged newer grounds of collaboration for a multitude of events and initiatives. Shell has been actively promoting its global association with The Hyundai Motorsports team at the World Rally Championship in India. This showcases the strength of Hyundai Cars and Shell under extreme conditions. Every year lucky Hyundai customers witness the Hyundai Car in action during a rally stage and witness the technology and workmanship of service under extreme conditions. The company has also been helping Hyundai in its efforts to increase the Customer Satisfaction Index through active participation in events like Customer Meet, Skill Fest, Family days, etc. Notes To Editors Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas and condensate fields (PMT fields). Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Jayashree Basu; jayashree.basu@edelman.com; +91 9650508648 Edelman India Shivani Talwar; shivani.talwar@edelman.com; +91 9871521310 Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, April 16, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell Lubricants India Jun 09, 2018 ‘Shell lubricant in the no.1 lubricant supplier and a 70- year history of innovation. The company has its presence in various industries worldwide, including metal, mining, power generation and home energy. With the right products, solutions and services, Shell lubricant India has recently witnessed considerable growth in metal industry, where even one break down or unscheduled maintenance can lead to stoppage of production. Shell India thus offers advanced solutions to make real life difference to productivity of an industry. In this exclusive interview with Iron&Steel Review, Praveen Nagpal, Chief Technology Officer of Shell Lubricants India discusses the latest trends and challenges in the metals and mining industry, technological edge provided by lubricants in metal industry, the business cycle of vendor partners and the new-age solutions to reduce the Total cost of Ownership. ‘ Shell Lubricants has its presence in India for quite some time. What do you think are the new trends and the technological edge introduced by lubricants in the metals and mining industry? Ans: The metals and the mining industry is shaping up in India and the new technologies are bringing more efficiency. In recent years, the efficiency of a machine has been increasing in both metals and mining industry. And when this is increasing, it also increasing the challenges for lubricants. Lubricants is an integral component of nay moving part within equipment. Efficiency canthus be increased either in hardware changes, or it can be done with a smaller sort of capacity of an oil reservoir and when that happens, it also starts increasing the stress on lubricants. There are two types of stresses, which come on lubricants -Mechanical Stress and Thermal Stress. The Mechanical Stress largely comes due to the heavy loads and Thermal Stress comes because of the temperature. The metal industry also faces challenges related to water contamination and dirt, etc. So, we see the challenges and accordingly we develop the solution. Whether it is a hydraulic system or the gear system or the circulating oil system or a certain type of grease, we offer the right type of product to the metal sector and we continually see the opportunity to work on. So, if we take an example of circulating oil, the major issue of the metal industry is when the water mixes with that oil, it affects the performance of bearings and rollers. It also reduces the lifetime of lubricants and the component. We are developing the new generation product, Morlina S2 BA, which has got a high grade super demulsibility. It exceeds what a typical industry requires. Similarly, with the greases, the development of the hydraulic oil and all these products give a very good technology competitive edge in a way that they go beyond the industry’s specification. When it comes to the maximize usage of oil life and improving reliability, this comes as a technology edge of these products in the metals and mining industry. And we continue to develop this kind of solution for the metals and mining industry. And of course, we are happy to mention that JSW, JSPL, Bhushan Group and Tata Steel are some of our prime customers in the metal industry. With several modern steel plants rising in the metals industry, what solutions Shell Lubricants can offer to these plants? Ans: We must look from customers shoes to provide solutions for the metals and mining industry. What kind of solution they require? Is it the product portfolio or is it how we really help to improve their Total Cost of Ownership or is it how do they ensure longer lifetime of a component and meet the efficiency? Efficiency is the continual operation at the optimum usage of energy. Again, if there is any unexpected problem like leakages, which is quite common in the metals industry. This can significantly increase their cost of operation and maintenance. We here at Shell Lubricants see what kind of solution we can offer through our product, people and services. We also look at the various key challenges of the customers within the metals industry. Hence, we do the survey of the plant, finding out the opportunity to optimize the total consumption by increasing the lifetime of a component. And, this kind of solution helps customers reduce the Total Cost of Ownership. So, Shell works only in that area with its customers. How do you see the growth of the metal sector in India? How do you position Shell Lubricants within the related sector? Ans: If you look at the growth of metal sector, India is probably the only country, which has been growing significantly in the metal segment. The reason is the huge investment happening in infrastructure by Government and Private industries. The construction projects in Indian cities are driving demand for steel. From the industry data, the intent is to increase steel per capita consumption from present 60 kg to 160 kg by 2030 and a target of 300 million tonnes as per government projections. Currently we have ended around close to 100 million tonnes of steel production. So, this will significantly increase. Now, look at the global steel demand, which is typically growing at 1.2-1.5 percent. The biggest market like China is declining, whereas the India sees the typical growth of 7 to 8 percent. So, the demand in the metals and mining industry will continue to increase. Looking at the future demand growth, Shell needs to be aligned with whatever new solution customers required in terms of product and services. Then, if new technologies are coming for lubricants. Accordingly, we need to collaborate with the end customer and the equipment manufacturer to develop solutions for that. Thus, we are continuously connecting with our end customer, engaging with the OEMs in the metal sector, understanding what kind of challenges they anticipate with the future technology. Accordingly, we continue to develop solutions with them. This is how we really link our solutions with a typical industry. At present, we have a market share of 5 percent combining the industrial and automotive sectors. How do you see the business cycle of vendors in partnering the growth of metals and mining industry? Ans: When we talk about the business cycle of vendors, we continue to connect with all our vendors, understanding how they are going to shape up their new technology as per the current industry demand, what kind of lubricant challenges they anticipate and what kind of solutions we can jointly develop for the metals & mining industry. Yes, we are closing the loop by interacting with our customers and understanding the performance of our products. We also try to understand from them what when they see new technologies, what kind of new challenges they see for the lubricants. That’s a very critical element in our new product development. We sit with the OEMs, we understand how the OEMs are improving the efficiency of their machines, what kind of hardware they are changing in their machines and how it is driving demand for the new generation lubricants. Then, connecting all the dots together, we start our development process. This development process depends upon a kind of product cycle. It can take one to three years’ time for a product to touch the ground. So. It means that have to realty work in advance before new technologies touch the ground. And that’s how we really work closely with our customers, vendors, OEMs to develop solutions for the metals and mining industry in India. What are the operations and maintenance issues in the metal sector? How much has Shell Lubricants helped in maintaining the cost of operation in ferrous and non-ferrous metals industry? Ans: A typical issue in the metal sector is operations and maintenance. From an end-user perspective, the most critical for the end customers that they cannot afford any unplanned stoppage. One breakdown or unscheduled maintenance incident can lead to significant loss of production. So that’s one area where reliability is the main concern. They want to use the products which ensure a reliable operation. So, there would be no unplanned stoppages and no unscheduled breakdowns in the equipment. The second major issue of metal sector is leakages. The third issue is water contamination since the metal industry goes through several processes where leakages can be observed because of water mixing with lubricants. So, these are the major challenges of metal sector. The industry wants supplies to help them addressing these challenges. Yes, we also focus on non-ferrous metals industry. We have clients like Hindustan Zinc, Hindalco and others. We continue to connect with them, understanding their needs and challenges in the lubricant sector. But again, I would say our primary focus in on steel. How does Shell Lubricants integrate an E2E supply chain to develop sustainability in its operations? Ans: When we talk about End to End supply chain, we see it from the inception. So, we start from digging, producing ore, transmitting ore to plant. In this end to end supply chain, there are several types of equipment’s used. One must really find out what kind of lubricants would be required, what kind of services would be required. I strongly believe the days are gone when people just talked about the product. Now people talk about the operating life cycle cost and that works intend to end cycle. In the metals industry, starting from mining to end production, we, at Shell, have the right solution, right product offerings and right kind of services, which help customers reduce their total cost of operation. Within the metals industry, there are different types of applications, which need greases, hydraulic oil, circulating oil or gear oil. All these kinds of offerings and the services, which helps in monitoring the performance of products and the additional services, which compliment the performance of products in helping customers reduce their cost of operation is offered by Shell Lubricants. However, the future is al about the Internet of Things. Today, we talk about the oil condition monitoring by taking a physical sample, but now we are also exploring by putting some census in the oil system, which is continuously monitoring the performance of oil, connected via GPS in our system where we can look 24x7 at the performance of lubricant and it can generate alarms if anything goes wrong with the machine and the lubricant; alarming customers that something wrong is happening and take corrective action before the failure occurs. Considering the long-term partnership with our customer, we improve the overall efficiency of their operation and minimize unplanned stoppages and that’s the area we are continuously working on for future development. Source: Iron and Steel Review Shell brings Make The Future festival to India for the first time Jun 13, 2018 Futuristic Cars to compete for fuel efficiency at Shell Eco-marathon at the Festival New Delhi : Shell is bringing their marquee event Shell Eco - marathon (SEM) to India for the first time. The SEM Challenger will be part of Make the Future India to be held in Chennai between 6th – 9th December 2018. Shell’s Make the Future is a global platform for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges. SEM, which was first inaugurated in 1939, is the world’s longest-running student competition wherein engineering students are challenged to design, build and test fuel-efficient cars. Indian teams have been partcipating since 2010 but this is the first time the competition will be held on home ground. With events hosted in countries around the globe, they aim to provide an opportunity for multiple stakeholders: including students, entrepreneurs, businesses, governments and the public, to experience, test and contribute bright energy ideas. The India tracks will showcase demo for cleaner energy solutions; discussions on powering India’s progress - innovations, challenges and opportunities as well as partnerships for success. This is also a great opportunity for student teams to test and fine tune their vehicle for the Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2019. For first timers, this would be a great platform to showcase their skill,be part of a world-class experience and test drive their vehicles with fellow competitors on a professional circuit. Student teams that take to the track will be evaluated on the criteria of who goes farthest on the least amount of fuel. There has been a growing demand from colleges to bring the fuel-efficiency competition to India and this will allow widespread participation from students across the country. In the past, Indian students have showcased many innovative and energy efficient models and prototypes that has also caught attention of industry and government. Team Averera from IIT BHU created a light weight three-wheeled electric vehicle with customized motor controller, that clocked a mileage of 350 kms on a single litre of fuel. The ingenious team from Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, Karnataka created the prototype with a 100cc motorcycle engine that clocked a mileage of 100+ kmpl. while team BITS Pilani worked on a car that would literally, run on garbage, using ethanol to drive its way into the fuel-efficiency competition. Commenting on the same, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, “We have seen the quality, quantity, ingenuity and interest of the teams only rise over the past few years. This was one of the motivations behind getting our global competition to India so that more teams are able to participate and leverage this unique platform. At Shell, we believe that these bright young minds have the potential to truly impact the future of sustainability and I am positive that through our people, partnerships and innovations, we will be able to provide more and cleaner energy solutions for a better tomorrow.” India has been part of SEM for the last eight years. Since last year, Shell has enhanced its scope of search for future tech innovation in clean energy and future transport alongside fuel efficiency and brought them under one umbrella – Make the Future. All vehicles will be subject to the regulations of the Shell Eco-marathon which can be accessed. For more information, please visit the SEM Challenger India page. Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas fields (PMT fields). Enquiries Arpita Kedia Account Manager, Edelman India arpita.kedia@edelman.com / + 919871934147 Rupali Pant Account Executive, Edelman India rupali.pant@edelman.com/ +918377860539 Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, June 13, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. Shell India awarded United Nation’s Best Innovative Practices award 2018 for “Women at Workplace” category May 11, 2018 New Delhi, Shell India received United Nation’s Best Innovative Practices award for “Women at Workplace” category at the United Nations Global Compact Network India(UNGCNI) Gender Equality Summit 2018. This is a recognition of Shell’s ongoing efforts in creating a more diverse and inclusive workplace where women are consistently provided opportunities to advance their careers whilst maintaining a healthy work-life balance. Celebrating the recognition, Ms. Mansi Tripathy, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India Cluster, said, “Shell has a proud heritage of celebrating diversity and fostering inclusion. I am proud to be part of an organization that provides women opportunities to grow as professionals, while maintaining a healthy work-life balance. Our global theme of ‘Balance means Business’ is built on the foundation that better gender balance leads to greater business performance. On behalf of Shell, I thank the UN GCNI for recognizing this effort.” The UNGCNI’s case study competition drew participation from over 30 organizations from across Corporates, NGOs, Semi government, Start-ups and B Schools. The jury comprised of experienced individuals including Sarika Bhattacharya- CEO Of BD Foundation, a leading D&I consulting firm in India; Mrs. Veena Swaroop, Ex- Executive Director Human Resources for Engineers India Limited and Dr. Manushi Chaudhary- Academician from the Birla Institute of Management. The winners of the award were judged on the basis of a case study highlighting organization diversity & inclusion (D&I) practices. Shell India’s presentation on, “Balance means Business” highlighted the company’s 3C model (Compliance, Care & Choice) through real life experiences of its women employees who shared personal stories to bring to life the impact of Shell’s policies on their careers as well as the role of leaders and enabling environment. Be it reaping the benefits of the home working policy while leading the HR portfolio for Asia Pacific; or benefitting from a six-month sabbatical to pursue dance and spirituality, the Shell women stories further brought to life the tangible value created by the company’s D&I focus. Added Mr. Tarun Varma, VP HR, Shell India, “We accept this prestigious recognition on behalf of the 7000 colleagues who are powering progress together every day across Shell’s lines of business and services in India. We truly admire and respect the many roles women play, both personally and professionally. We re-affirm our commitment to making Shell a truly inclusive workplace where each of us is motivated to bring our whole self to work, irrespective of gender, race, age or sexual orientation.” Shell’s focus on other aspects of diversity ranging from opportunities for especially abled people, differential lifestyle choices and orientation including for LGBTQ especially struck a chord with the jury. The case study also brought out the uncompromising focus by the Shell businesses in India around safety & security and state of the art facilities, that create an enabling environment for diversity to thrive. Shell India’s full suite of programmes on capacity development and mentoring were acknowledged and appreciated by the jury. This was also viewed as a successful formula towards sustained improvement of women representation at senior levels. Initiatives undertaken by Shell Foundation and examples such as the NXplorer (an awareness building programme focused on food - water - energy nexus) and Re-Energize (a programme to support women, who have been on a career break due to assorted reasons, to start a career with Shell) also helped set the company apart from the other entries. Shell sees potential LNG supply shortage as global demand surges Feb 26, 2018 The global liquefied natural gas (LNG) market has continued to defy expectations of many market observers, with demand growing by 29 million tonnes to 293 million tonnes in 2017, according to Shell’s annual LNG Outlook. Such strong growth in demand is consistent with Shell’s first LNG Outlook, published in 2017. Based on current demand projections, Shell sees potential for a supply shortage developing in mid-2020’s, unless new LNG production project commitments are made soon. The global liquefied natural gas (LNG) market has continued to defy expectations of many market observers, with demand growing by 29 million tonnes to 293 million tonnes in 2017, according to Shell’s annual LNG Outlook. Such strong growth in demand is consistent with Shell’s first LNG Outlook, published in 2017. Based on current demand projections, Shell sees potential for a supply shortage developing in mid-2020’s, unless new LNG production project commitments are made soon. Japan remained the world’s largest LNG importer in 2017, while China moved into second placeas Chinese imports surged past South Korea’s. Total demand for LNG in China reached 38 million tonnes, a result of continued economic growth and policies to reduce local air pollution through coalto-gas switching. “We are still seeing significant demand from traditional importers in Asia and Europe, but we are also seeing LNG provide flexible, reliable and cleaner energy supply for other countries around the world,” said Maarten Wetselaar, Integrated Gas and New Energies Director at Shell. “In Asia alone, demand rose by 17 million tonnes. That’s nearly as much as Indonesia, the world’s fifth-largest LNG exporter, produced in 2017.” LNG has played an increasing role in the global energy system over the last few decades. Since 2000, the number of countries importing LNG has quadrupled and the number of countries supplying it has almost doubled. LNG trade increased from 100 million tonnes in 2000 to nearly 300 million tonnes in 2017. That’s enough gas to generate power for around 575 million homes. LNG buyers continued to sign shorter and smaller contracts. In 2017, the number of LNG spot cargoes sold reached 1,100 for the first time, equivalent to three cargoes delivered every day. This growth mostly came from new supply from Australia and the USA. The mismatch in requirements between buyers and suppliers is growing. Most suppliers still seek long-term LNG sales to secure financing. But LNG buyers increasingly want shorter, smaller and more flexible contracts so they can better compete in their own downstream power and gas markets. This mismatch needs to be resolved to enable LNG project developers to make final investment decisions that are needed to ensure there is enough future supply of this cleaner-burning fuel for the world economy. See Shell’s full LNG Outlook for 2018 at www.shell.com/lngoutlook Enquiries: Shell International Media Relations +44 (0) 207 934 5550 Cindy Lopez Head, South East Asia/South Asia, Media Relations +6 012 282 1765/ cindy.lopez@shell.com Mich Villar Shell Spokesperson +63 917 536 6424/ mich.villar@shell.com Sonia Meyer Shell Spokesperson +65 8499 4837/ sonia.meyer@shell.com Shell Investor Relations International: + 31 70 377 4540 North America: +1 832 337 2034 Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this release refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations” respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This release contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forwardlooking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2016 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this release, February 26, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Indian Students to compete in Singapore as Shell's Make the Future Festival returns for a second year Feb 28, 2018 New Delhi: Our planet is looming under the dreadful consequences of climate change and pollution levels across the world, are soaring higher than ever. Asian countries like India and China have captured global attention and are at the centre of global discourse on saving the environment. However, all is not lost - thanks to the youth and millennials from these countries, who are rising to the challenge and devoting themselves to finding “smart” and innovative solutions to build a sustainable future. One of the world’s longest-running student competitions, the Shell Eco-marathon Asia is a global programme that challenges bright young minds to design and build ultra-energy-efficient cars, thereby fostering innovative solutions to transform transportation. To be held in Singapore from March 8 to 11, the competition will witness participation from over 120 student teams from 18 countries across Asia Pacific and the Middle East; putting their self-built energy-efficient cars to the test. Representing India, will be a contingent of 10 futuristic cars from 10 universities competing to be the most energy-efficient amongst all. This is the 8th year in a row that India is participating in the Asian leg of the Shell Eco-marathon. Prestigious institutes such as: Delhi Technical University, Indian Institute of Technology, Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bangalore, SRM University, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) University and, Birla Institute of Technology and Science Pilani; will participate and demonstrate their vision for fuel-efficient technologies. These bright young minds will be showcasing prototypes ranging from engines with a mileage of 350 km/hr, to going up to 150 kms, i.e, from Mumbai to Pune, in a single battery charge! With the global focus on electric mobility and emissions control through fuel efficiency and usage of ethanol in automobiles, the Indian teams have also developed concept cars under various categories such as gasoline, battery electric and ethanol. The teams will be competing against each other as well as against their peers from other countries. Since 2017, the Shell Eco-marathon has been a part of the Make the Future Singapore, a free festival of bright energy ideas and innovations for Asia, will take place at the Changi Exhibition Centre. Returning to Singapore for a second year, the public festival will be a platform for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the global energy challenge: how to generate more energy, while producing less CO2 emissions. At Make the Future Singapore, virtual reality and hands-on experiences will take visitors on a journey to explore bright ideas from around Asia, see what is happening now to power our world and get a glimpse of what the future of energy might look like. They will be able to discover what it's like to generate electrical energy by dancing, play interactive games, build and race mini saltwater cars, and meet young scientists and energy start-ups. Shell Eco-marathon Asia will include two key competitions this year. The longest running competition is the Mileage Challenge where teams compete to travel the farthest on the least amount of fuel. In 2017, the winning team of the Asian leg was efficient enough to travel 2,289 kilometres – the distance from Singapore to Chiang Mai, Thailand – on just one litre of fuel! The second Shell Eco-marathon competition to take place this year in Singapore is Drivers’ World Championship Asia. Introduced to the Shell Eco-marathon programme in 2016, Drivers’ World Championship challenges the best UrbanConcept teams to combine the proven energy efficiency of their car with the speed and skill of their driver, in a race to see who can cross the finish line first on the least amount of fuel. Make the Future Singapore 2018 is held with support from the Singapore Tourism Board, Ministry of Education, Science Centre Singapore, Innosparks, Strides Transportation and Borneo Motors. For more information on Make the Future Singapore and to register for free priority tickets, please visit Make the Future Singapore. Notes to editors: To access previous event images, visit Ecomarathon Albums Participating teams as of February 8, 2018 Country Number of teams Australia 2 Brunei Darussalam 3 China 4 Egypt 7 India 10 Indonesia 26 Japan 1 Kazakhstan 2 Malaysia 7 New Zealand 1 Oman 2 Pakistan 10 Philippines 17 Saudi Arabia 2 Singapore 10 South Korea 2 Thailand 13 Vietnam 7 Total 126 Enquiries: Cindy Lopez Head, South East Asia/South Asia, Media Relations +6 012 282 1765/ cindy.lopez@shell.com Mich Villar Shell Spokesperson +63 917 536 6424/ mich.villar@shell.com Sonia Meyer Shell Spokesperson +65 8499 4837/ sonia.meyer@shell.com Priyanka Dube External Communications Country Advisor, Shell +91 99102 85564 / priyanka.dube@shell.com Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations” respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. There can be no assurance that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this announcement. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2016 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, February 19, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov Megh Singh wins the Shell Global Driver of the Year Award 2017 Jun 20, 2018 Award recognizes drivers on safe driving practices that lead the way for others. Ahmedabad: Megh Singh, a professional driver with Agrawal Roadlines Private limited, Gujarat, one of the contracted hauliers for Shell in India becomes the first driver from the country to be awarded the Shell Global Driver of the Year award 2017 for East region globally. The region comprises all the countries on the eastern side of the world. The Shell Global Driver Award is a much-anticipated initiative that recognises drivers belonging to its hauliers and vendors for safe driving practices, proactively preventing unsafe behaviours or incidents and being role models for other drivers. Originally from Barmer, Rajasthan Megh has been a trucker for 25 years and transports hazardous goods (fuels) for Shell. He takes home the prize money of USD 1000. A tough contest that saw Megh prevail over 2500 light and heavy vehicle drivers bears testimony to his exemplary driving behaviour and unwavering focus on safety that has helped improve Shell’s health, safety, security and environment practices in the region. Having clocked an impressive 20,000 km in 2017 with ZERO motor vehicle accidents, Megh continues to motivate other drivers through safety tool box talks, encourages them to highlight hazards, near-miss and potential incidents and brings innovative ideas to encourage safe driving practices. Commenting on his achievement, Megh Singh, the award winning driver said, “Mujhe yeh award paa kar bahut khushi ho rahi hai. Main pichle 25 saal se driving kar raha hoon aur 7 saal se Agrawal Roadlines Pvt Ltd Jaamnagar ke saath hoon jo Shell India Marketing Pvt Ltd se judi hai. Hamara pehla uddeshya saavadhani baratna, doosra satark rehna, aur teesra suraksha rakhna hai. Savere jab hum gaadi mein loading karne jaate hai to pehle hum rakshak niyam, aur defensive driving niyam parhte hain. Agar humein kisi tarah ka khatra lagta hai to hum kaam nhi karte hain. Iss tarah haste haste yatra poori ho jaati hai. Agar hum apne kaam mein dhyaan rakhenge tabhi apna naam kamaa payenge. (I am extremely happy on receiving this award. I have been driving since the past 25 years. For the last seven years I have been working with Agrawal Roadlines Pvt Ltd in Jamnagar, which is associated with Shell India. While we drive on the road, we always strive to exercise caution, stay alert and safe. Each time we go for loading the material in our vehicles, it is a daily routine to read the defensive driving rules and remind us of our responsibility to ensure safety. We always assess the safety risks involved before starting our journey. By being planned and by following all the rules, we have managed to successfully complete all journeys. I believe that if one pays attention to whatever they do, they can accomplish great things in life.)” Vikas Kochhar (Head Trading and Supply India) said, “Shell’s Driver of the Year Award offers us an opportunity to recognise those who lead and motivate others to practice safe driving behaviours. In India more than 150000 people are killed in road traffic crashes in India every year. This represents 10% of the road crashes worldwide. A majority of these accidents are caused by what is classified as ‘driver faults’. At Shell, safety is core to everything we do. We run an array of programs in India to build skill and behaviours to help drivers be safe behind the wheel.” Shell has also rolled out #DriveSafeIndia campaign in 2017 that has benefited more than 3200 odd commercial drivers through defensive driving training and imparted training on safe road behaviours to over 10000 children. In 2018, #DriveSafeIndia is conducting health camps for truck drivers and we are rolling out a social media campaign supported by Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to inculcate safe driving practices targeting 1.5 Million Millennials across the country. Join the campaign to help India drive safe at Shell India Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas fields (PMT fields). Enquiries Arpita Kedia Account Manager, Edelman India arpita.kedia@edelman.com / + 919871934147 Rupali Pant Account Executive, Edelman India rupali.pant@edelman.com/ +918377860539 Shell’s TechTonic 2018 deliberates on Digitalisation in the oil & gas industry Aug 07, 2018 Bengaluru : A wave of digitalisation is sweeping through the Oil & Gas industry. From supermajors to small independent operators, new digital solutions are being implemented in areas as diverse as geological surveying, drilling and refining. The result is significant efficiency gains and cost savings. It is with this intent that Shell recently organised the second edition of its annual tech community event ‘TechTonic’ 2018 at the Shell IT Hub in Bengaluru, the largest IT hub for Shell globally. TechTonic is focused on inspiring learning about the entire hydrocarbon value chain of Shell, sparking new ideas through panel discussions, quiz competitions and masterclass sessions, and engaging the rich supplier and partner ecosystem. The theme of this year’s event was ‘Digitalisation. Jay Crotts, Executive Vice President and Group CIO, Royal Dutch Shell and Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, were keynote speakers at the event and spoke about ‘Digitalisation’ and Shell’s vision for the coming year. This was followed by a panel discussion on Digitalisation in Energy Industry with a special focus on Innovative Models in Digital Talent Development to enlighten the employees on the process and its advantages. The panel comprised of industry experts such as Rich McAvey, Gartner’s Research VP for the oil & gas industry, Gopal Chettri, Senior VP & Business Leader at CGI, and Deepa Bachu, Co-founder and CEO at Pensaar. The panel was moderated by Alisa Choong, VP and CIO, Shell’s Projects & Technology. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “Our purpose in Shell India is to - Power progress for more and cleaner energy solutions through our people, partnerships and innovations for India and the world. Our stakeholders in society have an expectation that we will understand and adopt digitalization, which is at the heart of the energy transition to become a company that effectively leverages the next generation of energy technology and solutions. It is a vision today that shall become our future; not just in the context of Shell and Shell in India but our future as a country. This year’s theme – Digitalization - is a continuation of our commitment to an environment conducive to learning, collaboration and technology. It is also in line with our aim of meeting the energy needs of society in economically, socially and environmentally viable ways.” TechTonic encourages all of Shell IT Bangalore Hub’s 3000+ employees, other Shell entities and Shell’s technology partners to showcase their projects, achievements, and innovative energy-industry-IT solutions through interactive booths. These booths showcased tools including Agile – a project management tool that helps manage workstreams and information flow, SAP integration in Shell’s digitalisation journey, cloud computing capabilities in Shell and Shell’s efforts towards process automation, among several others. InQUIZitive, a quiz competition on Shell’s Business, Digitalisation & General Knowledge, was also held and moderated by Craig Walker - VP & CIO Downstream. Four employee teams battled it out, of which one team emerged victorious. Rich McAvey, Gartner’s Research VP for the oil & gas industry, also took a masterclass on the topic of Digital Transformation & Future of Work in Oil and Gas. The masterclass focused on how business leaders can use digital technologies to optimize performance and how CIOs must change IT to remain relevant and impactful. Joseph C Campbell, T-System’s Co-Chief Technical Officer and Head of Account Innovation, took a masterclass on the topic of IoT Edge – Technologies for Digitalisation. The masterclass covered how digitalisation would transform the landscape of the energy industry, refineries and many aspects within. Initiatives such as TechTonic and Shell’s increasing focus towards expanding its in-house IT expertise over the last decade is a testimony of the importance of digital ecosystems for driving the next leap of progress in the energy world. Mr. Jay Crotts, EVP and Group CIO, Royal Dutch Shell said ,“As a company, Shell has always relied on innovation in engineering as well as digital technologies to drive growth and efficiency across its operations. This digital agenda has been at the forefront of our thinking for years- from automation of oil field [production] to the engagement with our end-customers. I believe the digital agenda gives us a platform for standards that allow us to execute business processes cheaper than we have ever done before.” Mr. Arun Padmanabhan, VP – IT, Shell, Bangalore, added “When we started TechTonic in 2017, we had a clear focus on technology, community and learning. The event made us collectively realize the value delivery and impact we are having from all the IT locations globally and the Bangalore IT hub in particular. We retained that focus for this year and centered around the theme of digitalization – an area where IT plays a critical enabling role. TechTonic 2018 was an outstanding platform for us to drive the needed awareness and learning across the community and help staff keep up with the digitalization shift for value delivery. TechTonic will continue to remain an integral part of the IT Function and the India calendar of events.” Since its inauguration in 2017, TechTonic, which has become an integral part of the annual calendar of Shell India, has helped increase the interest and enthusiasm towards utilizing technology to find more and cleaner energy solutions and help drive sustained value and growth for Shell and for India. Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 7000 employees, 200,000 retail customers and a 250 - strong distribution network. It brings world-class energy solutions across traditional, new energies and its derivatives including crude oil, refined products, chemicals and technology to individuals and enterprises. India is recognized as one of Royal Dutch Shell’s innovation hubs globally. It is home to world class centres hosting operations, information technology and innovation mandates in Bangalore and Chennai that are creating value for Shell and India. The company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with the Shell E4 programme for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in companies like Husk Power that are expanding access to energy. Shell remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which we operate through our NXplorer that promotes the pursuit of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how we are redefining the energy space Enquiries: Priyanka Dube Country Advisor - External Relations, Shell India priyanka.dube@shell.com Rupali Pant Edelman India rupali.pant@edelman.com Shell Dilutes Interest in Mahanagar Gas Limited Aug 23, 2018 Mumbai: Shell today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, BG Asia Pacific Holdings Pte Ltd (BGAPH) has continued with the dilution of its shareholding in the publicly listed Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) from 24% to now 10%. This announcement has no impact on other Shell businesses in India. Shell believes that India offers a vast opportunity for growth for Shell’s businesses and we will continue to pursue opportunities which can enhance Shell footprint in the country. We continue to believe in the key role that gas will play in India and will actively seek opportunities in that arena. Shell looks forward to playing a significant part in the energy transition in India. Enquiries: Nishi Oswal Shell India Markets Private Limited +91-9820075465 / nishi.oswal@shell.com Rupali Pant Edelman India Private Limited +91-8377860539/ rupali.pant@edelman.com Notes to Editors: Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas fields (PMT fields). Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this release, Aug 23 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell signs binding Letter of Intent (LoI) to secure 100% equity in Hazira LNG & Port Companies 27 August 2018 Aug 27, 2018 New Delhi, India: Shell Gas B.V., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell plc (“Shell”), announced today that it has signed a binding Letter of Intent (LoI) with Total Gaz Electricité Holdings France (“Total”) to acquire its 26% equity in the Hazira LNG and Portventure in India, subject to regulatory approvals. Hazira LNG & Port venture comprises two companies; Hazira LNG Pvt Ltd (“HLPL”) that operates a LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) regasification terminal in the State of Gujarat; and Hazira Port Pvt Ltd (“HPPL”), which manages a direct berthing multi-cargo port at Hazira. The move would allow Shell commercial and operational flexibility over Hazira to maximise integrated value and offer creative customer value propositions. This portfolio action is consistent with Shell’s strategy to deepen its presence in the gas value chain in India, the fourth largest LNG consumer in the world. Shell aims to contribute in bridging the energy deficit and further augment gas supplies in India. “Today marks an important milestone,” said Maarten Wetselaar, Shell’s Integrated Gas & New Energies Director. “This purchase creates a fully-owned and integrated Shell value chain – supply from our global LNG portfolio, regasification at the Hazira facility, and downstream customer sales. It enables Shell to better serve Indian customers and meet the country’s long-term need for more and cleaner energy. This also significantly strengthens the connection of the fastest growing gas markets in the world, India, and Shell’s unrivaled portfolio of competitive gas supply.” Shell Energy India (SEI) was established in 2017, to aggregate demand from downstream customers and secure competitive international supply to meet such demand, and will market and sell that gas to customers across India. Enquiries: Shell India Priyanka Dube Priyanka.Dube@shell.com +919910385564 Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Royal Dutch Shell plc and subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this release refer to entities over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This release contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition’, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2017 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this release, August 27, 2018. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. Shell India and Ministry of Road Transport and Highways roll out road safety program, #DriveSafeIndia to reach 5,000,000 millennials Aug 29, 2018 New Delhi, Shell Companies in India, in partnership with the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), Government of India, has rolled out #DriveSafeIndia, a behaviour change program to drive home the importance of safe driving practices aiming to reach 5 Million millennials leveraging social media and on ground activities. The first phase of the program saw high level of online engagement with more than 6 million impressions and 800,000 video views on Facebook and close to 400000 thousand impressions on Twitter. The Facebook engagement rate of 2.97% beat the India Road Safety 2017 benchmark of 2.0. The program targets the top ten road accident- prone cities of India. Every hour India witnesses 17 deaths caused due to road accidents with nearly half of them being young adults. 80% of the fatalities are due to human action. In line with Shell’s commitment to Goal Zero that leads by the principle of ‘Safety for All’ and MORTH’s commitment to < add their mission>, the three-phase program combines online and on-ground activities to inculcate safe driving habits including: No over-speeding Wearing helmets Wearing a seatbelt No driving under the influence of intoxicants No distracted driving Speaking on this partnership, Shri Nitin Gadkari, Hon’ble Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, said, “India sees over 500,000 road accidents leading to 150,000 fatalities. Road safety is a prime concern for the Government and aims to bring down road accidents by 50 percent by 2022. We hope inculcating safe driving behaviours amongst our youth who are just starting to drive will set the way forward for the rest of the country. With the #DriveSafeIndia initiative in partnership with Shell, we are adding to our ongoing effort to create safer Indian roads.” Added Nitin Prasad, Country Chairman, Shell Companies in India, “As more vehicles and drivers hit the fast expanding Indian road network, we need to understand the implications of rash driving to others and ourselves. We should all be able to go home safe to our loved ones every day. #DriveSafeIndia is one such effort from Shell with the support of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to create safer roads for all in India. We hope others, individuals and organisations, join us to take this movement to millions more across the country.” You can join the movement and spread the message on #DriveSafeIndia on Facebook and Twitter Program Highlights Facebook Over 62 lakh Impressions, 28 thousand Engagements with an Engagement Rate (ER) of 2.97% Over 8 lakh+ Video Views at a View Rate of 13.34% and Completion Rate 59.26% 'Distracted driver' video got maximum attention with view time of 4.2 secs and ER of 1.15% The 25-34 age group had the highest with View Rate of 13.87% and ER of 1.15% Resonated better with Males with a Completion Rate of 60.18% Twitter Close to 4 lakh Impressions, 13 thousand Engagements with an Engagement Rate of 3.56% Close to 16 thousand Video Views with a View Rate of 4.3% and Completion Rate of 91.2%. The program performed slightly better with Males with ER 3.6% (vs Females with ER 3.15%). The “No driving under the influence of intoxicants” saw the strongest engagement with Engagement Rate of 7.2% The program created by combined team of Shell teams in India and London saw Colloquial design the collaterals and Mediacom deploy it across channels. Coming up, #DriveSafeIndia will take the program on road to colleges across India to provide an experience the impact of safe driving practices through simulated exercises using virtual reality and animation. It will also target millennials to share their experiences of saving or losing through the adoption or lack of safe driving practices. About Shell India: Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas fields (PMT fields). About MoRTH: A ministry of the Government of India, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) is the main body for formulation and administration of rules, regulations, and laws relating to road transport in India. It has been led by Mr Nitin Gadkari, as minister, since May 2014. Total prize money of Rs. 20 lacs for winners of Shell Eco-marathon to be held at the Make the Future festival, India Sep 03, 2018 Registration date extended to September 7, 2018 New Delhi, August 30, 2018: Shell announced today that participating student teams for Shell Eco-marathon, an integral part of its marquee Make the Future festival that is being held in Chennai between December 6 to 9, 2018, stand to win a total prize money of Rs. 20 lacs across various categories. Till date, 40 student teams with close to 400 students from India and other countries have signed up for the first event in India. The company extended the registration for Shell Eco-marathon to September 7, 2018 to enable more students get a chance to test their custom designed cars for fuel efficiency and win. Shell’s Make the Future Festival is a global platform for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges. One of the world’s leading competition to recognize energy-efficiency, Shell Eco-marathon is a marathon with a difference. Student teams design, build and test cars for fuel efficiency. Unlike other marathons or car races, the Shell Eco-marathon recognises those teams who can go farthest on a litre of fuel rather than fastest. Past competitions have seen student designed cars achieve mileage of up to 2341 kilometer per litre* Said Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, “Energy demand for a surging India will only grow. Economic, societal and individual needs for mobility will be a key contributor to this demand. India’s first Make the Future festival and Shell Eco-marathon will offer young minds an opportunity to ideate, innovate and demonstrate out-of-the-box mobility solutions powered by efficient energy solutions. This is the need of the hour for India. I look forward to meeting the teams at Shell’s Make the Future festival and wish them all the best for the competition.” Shreyas Ravi, Manager, Team Infieon Supermileage, SRM University, Chennai, one of student teams who have signed up for Shell Eco-marathon said, “We are here to break the stereotype with our prototype model which has been built upon three objectives - minimum weight, maximum coasting distance and minimum fuel consumption.” Shrey Kansal, Manager, team DTU Supermileage, Delhi Technological University, another competing student team added, “The looming threat of fuel crisis worldwide, coupled with concerns regarding environmental pollution, inspired the team to come up with a workable fuel- efficient battery electric vehicle prototype. The vehicle which our team is working on is going to provide a mileage of 156 kms per unit of fuel source. In India as well as globally, electric vehicle is being seen as a potential alternative which could become the next big thing in the clean energy automation space.” The first edition of the “invite only” Make the Future India will host attendees from industries - energy, automotive, aviation, manufacturing, shipping as well as experts, academia, policy makers and students from schools and engineering colleges. In addition to Shell Eco-marathon, the festival will showcase innovative energy and mobility solutions; host discussions on the future of mobility - innovations, challenges and opportunities - featuring experts from Shell and representatives from the automotive industry, start-ups, academia and other industry watchers. An Experience zone showcasing bright innovative ideas around mobility powered by cleaner energy to inspire the next generation of automotive designers, engineers and innovators await visitors to the festival. Shell Eco-marathon will see teams competing in two vehicle classes. The Prototype class invites students to enter futuristic, streamlined vehicles, and the UrbanConcept class focuses on “roadworthy,” energy-efficient vehicles aimed at meeting the real-life needs of drivers. Entries for the event will be divided into two energy categories: Internal combustion: gasoline, diesel, and ethanol Battery electric For more information and to register, please visit www.shell.in * in the Prototype Internal Combustion engine category. Notes to Editors About Make the Future Festivals Make the Future Festivals is Shell’s global platform for conversation, collaboration and innovation around the world’s energy challenges. With events hosted in countries around the globe, they aim to provide an opportunity for multiple stakeholders: including students, entrepreneurs, businesses, governments and the public, to experience, test and contribute bright energy ideas. About Shell Eco-marathon Shell Eco-marathon is a global program built to offer students hands-on opportunities to develop ideas and technology, knowledge and skills, within an arena of competition. Currently held in in Asia, Americas and Europe and made up of two key competitions: Shell Eco-marathon Challenger, and Drivers’ World Championship, students from countries use innovative problem-solving skills to design and build their own cars. Looking at every aspect of design and technology, students compete to prove that their bright ideas will produce the most energy-efficient vehicle when tested on the track. About Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas fields (PMT fields). Enquiries Shell India Priyanka Dube Mobile: +919910385564 Priyanka.Dube@shell.com Edelman India Arpita Kedia Mobile: +919871934147 arpita.kedia@edelman.com Karnataka Minister Shri Priyank Kharge announces grant worth Rs 50 lakh for start-ups with a social focus at Shell Energy Entrepreneurship conference 2018 Sep 03, 2018 Shell E4 start -up hub’s first cohort demonstrate energy and sustainability solutions at the conference Bengaluru, September 3, 2018: Today, at the first Shell Energy Entrepreneurship Conference 2018, Shri Priyank Kharge, Minister for Social Welfare, Government of Karnataka, announced a grant worth Rs 50 lakh for start-ups with a strong social bent and working in rural development or rural well-being in the state. The conference organized by Shell E4, the company’s start-up hub featured a unique gathering of energy focused start-ups, Venture Capitalists, Energy Experts, Academia. The day also served as the graduation event for Shell E4’s first cohort of energy and sustainability start-ups. Launched in 2017, Shell E4 Start-up Hub aims to foster a vibrant ecosystem of energy entrepreneurs by bringing together talent, technology, capital and know-how to accelerate India’s transition towards a sustainable energy future. Earlier this year, Shell selected five start-ups– Detect Technologies, ION Energy, IoTrek, Trashcon and Ossus Biorenewables– that are working on a diverse range of solutions, including real-time pipeline monitoring, creating safer and smarter infrastructure and outdoor work sites, automating segregation of municipal solid waste, recovering green chemicals from waste water and building energy storage systems and infrastructure for electric vehicles. These start-ups are successfully integrating technologies like IoT and Artificial intelligence within their core products. Shri. Priyank Kharge, Minister for Social Welfare, Government of Karnataka, the chief guest at the event is a champion of the thriving Bengaluru start-up ecosystem and spoke about Karnataka government’s vision and commitment towards fostering the start-up ecosystem in India. In his keynote address, the minister said, “I would like to take this opportunity to announce that, to encourage more social innovations, any innovation that will be focused at rural development and well-being with a strong social impact, the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Karnataka, will be willing to support start-ups across the state with a grant of Rs. 50 lakh.” Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “Shell is committed to be a trusted partner in India’s growth story through its people, partnerships and innovations. Shell E4 furthers our commitment to nurture the innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystem in the country. We will continue to evolve Shell E4 to foster solutions that can help India access more and cleaner energy and drive sustainable growth. We wish each of the graduating start-ups the very best in their journey towards a sustainable future. We shall continue to liaison with them through Shell’s alumni network to help them further develop and deploy their technologies at a larger scale.” The Demo Day also witnessed several panel discussions on Energy Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Future of transportation and mobility. In the discussion on Energy Entrepreneurship and Innovation, focus was primarily on the overall scenario of energy innovation in India with a focus on production and consumption of energy within the country. The speakers discussed the opportunity and challenges along with counterpoints and solutions for achieving sustainable energy security. Likewise, the discussion on investment in energy sector, saw panelists talk about what investors are looking at in energy sector along with possibilities of the investment funds planning to invest in energy. Additionally, the day also saw ‘Speed Pitching’, where a few other start-ups who were invited made instant, elevator pitches to the investors present at the event. Mr. James Unterreiner, General Manager, Shell E4 Start-up Hub, said, “The strategic intent of Shell E4 is to accelerate India’s transition to a sustainable energy future by becoming a major actor in the entrepreneurial ecosystem by linking talent, technology, capital and know-how for energy entrepreneurs in the country. The E4 incubator invests in the most promising start-ups to develop early insights in critical innovations and to build alignment and commitment with companies that we like to partner with. I congratulate the first cohort of Shell E4 and wish them well in their journey." Located at Shell Technology Centre Bangalore, one of the company’s three global innovation hubs, Shell E4 housed the E4 start-ups at a vibrant co-working space for six months. The start-ups were offered a seed funding of USD 20,000 each and access to: State-of-the-art testing and prototyping laboratories for product development and testing Bootcamps aimed at customer discovery and improving the product Top industry mentors and experts New markets and interactions with investors and other growth and funding opportunities Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 7000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas fields (PMT fields). Enquiries: Priyanka Dube Shell India Priyanka.Dube@shell.com +919910385564 Rupali Pant Edelman India Rupali.pant@edelman.com +91-8377860539 Shell's Make The Future India 2018 accelerates conversation on future of mobility Dec 07, 2018 Day 1 of Make The Future India 2018 The first edition of Make the Future India 2018, featuring the Shell Eco-marathon, kicked off today at the Madras Motor Race Track in Chennai. The occasion was graced by Hon’ble Minister P Thangamani, Minister for Electricity & Non-Conventional energy, Prohibition and Excise, Government of Tamil Nadu and Hon’ble Minister P Benjamin, Minister of State for Rural Industries including Cottage and Small Industries, Mr. Pilmore Bedford, British Deputy High Commissioner for South India and Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India. Flagged of by the minister, the festival brings together academia, government, school children, industry representatives and members of the public to showcase innovations in clean energy and give a glimpse into what the future of energy could look like. Attendees can experience bright energy ideas put into action through project demonstrations from students across the country. Hon’ble Minister of State P Thangamani, said,” It is commendable to see what Shell has been doing to provide clean energy solutions in India. As we are facing the impact of climate change, it has become essential to look for ways that could reduce our dependency on diesel and petrol and can give us a sustainable future.” Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “Shell Make the Future is a platform that encourages conversation, collaboration and affirmative action around the world’s energy challenges. Endeavors like Make the Future are essential and may help find some solutions to meet the growing energy demand. Shell India stays committed to our ambition to power India’s progress with more and cleaner energy solutions- through our people, partnerships and innovations- for India and the world. India has been part of the Shell Eco-marathon for eight years now and this year we have witnessed participation from close to 250 engineering students at the Shell Eco-marathon. We believe that these engineers define the future of mobility and can play an integral role in India’s energy transition.” The inaugural ceremony featured the state-of-the-art Shell Eco-marathon, a global program and one of the world’s longest-running student competitions that challenges bright student minds to design and build ultra-energy-efficient cars, and then put them to the test in competition. Teams put their self-built vehicles through a detailed technical and safety inspection before they are allowed on the Madras Motor Race Track to compete under different categories. With 247 students participating across 20 teams, the winning team of the Shell Eco-marathon competition stands to win a total prize money of INR 20 Lac across various categories. In the Prototype category, contestants showcased futuristic vehicles with incredible aerodynamics. On the other hand, in the Urban Concept, students designed more conventional, roadworthy, energy-efficient vehicles aimed at meeting the real-life needs of drivers. The SEM student teams participating under both the categories can choose to run their vehicles under two possible engine types – Internal combustion - petrol, diesel & biofuel and Battery Electric - powered by hydrogen fuel cells or lithium-based batteries. In the competition, teams attempted to prove the energy efficiency of their car with the speed and skill of their driver to see who can cross the finish line first on the least amount of fuel. Nxplorers program Announced at the Make the Future Festival, the NXplorers program is a global initiative to build critical thinking and complex problem-solving skills in school children in the age group of 14-19 years. It equips students with tools and skills necessary to address real-world issue of food-energy-water nexus. The effort is to make them positive agents of change for a sustainable future. Shell is currently implementing this program in 14 countries across the world. Partnered with a specialized organization in education, Learning Links Foundation, the NXplorers program runs in schools where teachers and students learn the NXplorers methodologies and tools and engage in addressing real-world issues. The plan is to implement the program in almost 200 schools across states like Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Delhi-NCR in the first year of its implementation. In the next three years, Shell aims to take NXplorers program to 2,60,000 students in over 3000 schools. During the three-year period, the educational program will also inspire young students, especially girls to take up STEM and related fields for higher education. In the last six months, students have worked on several projects out of which the best four were put on display at the Experiential Zone. The projects on display included a smart irrigation device that can monitor the moisture content of the soil and turn on the water pump automatically whenever the moisture drops below a threshold value; Seedographer, a device that increases the resource use efficiency of seed sowing in agricultural fields. Also, on display was a smart drainage system that can divert wastewater from the storm drains, manholes and direct the same for agricultural purposes after passing through a purification process; last but not the least, a project that proposes to create energy from food waste through the process of anaerobic digestion. Dicussions and debate on tomorrow’s energy challenges Parallel to the competition, panel discussions engaged auto experts, academicians, professionals from auto companies to talk about the transition to low-carbon energy, at the business forum. Deliberations focused on the changing scenario from fossil energy to electricity, the impact of the new emission standards on the automotive sector and Indian economy, developing future cities having enough resources to fulfill the energy demand and enabling energy-related entrepreneurs to succeed. The first day of the festival took school-children, Shell’s fuel station staff, industry partners, representatives from business, academicians among others on a journey to explore ideas and innovation, highlighting the future of energy. At the Experience Zone, state-of-the-art demonstrations like the world’s first flat-pack truck, a CNG-powered scooter, and a waste-to-fuel technology - IH2 (Integrated Hydropyrolisis and Hydro conversion)- that converts non-food biomass feedstock such as wood, agricultural residues, algae, aquatic plants and cellulosic fractions of municipal waste – to BSVI grade were put on display. It also includes interesting projects designed by school children from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Notes to Editor About Make the Future India 2018 Held for the first time in India, Make the Future featuring Shell Eco-marathon, is a festival of ideas and innovation. It is a unique global platform for conversations, collaboration and innovations focused on world’s energy challenges. In India, the event focuses on “Powering progress in mobility, together”. The four-day event will feature bright energy ideas and solutions that address the global energy challenge: how to meet the energy demands of the future, while producing less CO2. Taking place at Madras Motor Race Track from December 6-9, 2018, the event will host thousands of visitors, inviting them to experience the ideas, contribute their own and join the journey to an energy-efficient, low-carbon future. About Shell Eco-marathon India Shell Eco-marathon is a competition for students who are passionate about developing innovative mobility solutions. It challenges engineering, design, science and technology students to design, build and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Teams from colleges/universities across India will compete in an exciting head-to-toe race to see who has the most energy-efficient vehicle. About the Business Forum The Business Forum is a platform for industry partners, academicians and experts to deliberate on the exciting future of mobility. In a series of panel discussions, the transition to low-carbon energy is looked from the perspective of addressing the demand for more cleaner and greener source of energy in urban planning, the impact of adoption of new emission standards in the automobile sector and building an ecosystem to promote entrepreneurship in Indian universities, focusing especially on energy. Shell showcases the Global Vehicle Trust ‘OX’ at its marquee event Make the Future in Chennai Dec 08, 2018 Shell India launches "OX to India" - a potential mobility solution for accessible, efficient, all-terrain transportation in developing regions Chennai, India: Focusing on bridging the mobility divide in India, Shell today unveiled the world's first 'flat-pack' truck –The OX - an all-terrain vehicle for reaching remote areas. The OX is a simple to maintain truck, suitable for the diverse and rugged Indian terrain of deep sands, steep hills, marshy lands, and steep river banks in hard-to-reach communities in developing regions. It is also the world’s first flat-pack truck – it can be assembled from a flat-pack kit in less than 12 hours and transported in greater numbers to where it is needed more quickly. Unveiled at the first edition of Shell’s Make the Future festival in India, the OX truck is a global partnership between Shell and Gordon Murray Design (GMD) and the Global Vehicle Trust (GVT). It is an effort by Shell to empower communities living in the interiors of the country, by providing an effective transportation solution. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said “Limited mobility restricts access to basic amenities in remote areas. Shell is eager to contribute to developing and promoting effective mobility solutions thereby improving the quality of life of people in these areas. The OX is a very promising technology having immense potential to broaden access to transport possibilities. We are pleased to partner with GMD and GVT and hope this versatile vehicle will be instrumental in transforming lives and overcoming daily accessibility challenges.” Highlights OX to India, showcases capability of vehicles by bringing all-terrain mobility to rural communities in developing countries Ox is lightweight and rugged; with simple maintenance; designed for self-assembly, supplied fully assembled or flat-packed for easy shipping Can carry a payload of 1,900kg including everyday necessities, medical supplies, building and agriculture materials The flat-pack design makes OX the first-of-its-kind vehicle that is simple to maintain, having accessible components and fewer parts. It is ecologically sound, easy to manufacture, build and transport. The lightweight OX originated from the vision of one man – Sir Torquil Norman, the founder of GVT, and is based on GMD’s flexible iStream technology. It is specifically designed to carry a payload of 1900 kg or eight 44-gallon drums. The design for the OX is nothing short of revolutionary, and the flat-pack format fundamentally changes the way a vehicle can be bought and transported, providing specific advantages to lead times and overall unit cost. The second day of the Make the Future, featuring Shell Eco-marathon, also saw student teams competing on the track after passing a detailed technical inspection. The winning teams under different categories will be announced on December 9th and rewarded with cash prize of about INR 20 Lac. Notes to Editor About Make the Future India 2018 Held for the first time in India, Make the Future featuring Shell Eco-marathon, is a festival of ideas and innovation. It is a unique global platform for conversations, collaboration and innovations focused on world’s energy challenges. In India, the event focuses on “Powering progress in mobility, together”. The four-day event will feature bright energy ideas and solutions that address the global energy challenge: how to meet the energy demands of the future, while producing less CO2. Taking place at Madras Motor Race Track, Chennai from December 6-9, 2018, the event will host thousands of visitors, inviting them to experience the ideas, contribute their own and join the journey to an energy-efficient, low-carbon future. About Shell Eco-marathon India Shell Eco-marathon is a competition for students who are passionate about developing innovative mobility solutions. It challenges engineering, design, science and technology students to design, build and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Teams from colleges/universities across India will compete in an exciting head-to-toe race to see who has the most energy-efficient vehicle. Shell’s Make the Future India ends with teams from Varanasi, Delhi and Vellore emerging winners at Shell Eco-marathon Dec 09, 2018 Chennai, India: The first edition of Make the Future India, featuring Shell Eco-marathon concluded today at Madras Motor Race Track, Chennai. The closing ceremony was graced by Sh. K Pandiarajan, Hon’ble Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture, Government of Tamil Nadu and Indresh Kumar, Vice President Finance, Hydrocarbons – Shell Business Operations, Chennai. The hon’ble minister felicitated students from Indian Institute of Technology – Banaras Hindu University, Delhi Technical University and VIT University for building energy-efficient vehicles, that went farthest with the least amount of energy. Congratulating the participating students at the Shell Eco-marathon, Sh. Pandiarajan remarked, “I am delighted to be a part of this mega event. It is fitting that Shell has chosen to host the Make the Future in this region. It is heartening to see that Shell is taking STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) to schools and colleges. STEM is the success mantra which will give a competitive advantage to our country. The ideas developed by students here are also testimony to their entrepreneurial spirit. Today's entrepreneurs are born in colleges. We welcome these students to bring their ideas to Tamil Nadu, where a wealth of support infrastructure is available to incubate them.” In his address, Indresh Kumar said, “We are proud to see an extraordinary performance by student teams at Make the Future India. Through their dedication and perseverance, teams have proved their mettle at the first edition of Shell Eco-marathon India. Their exemplary work in building the ultimate energy-efficient vehicles, is a step towards our endeavor of addressing the world’s energy challenges.” Shell Eco-marathon results Team DTU Supermileage claimed victory in the Internal Combustion Engine (ICE) Urban Concept category by achieving a mileage of 154 km/l. This is the equivalent of driving from Chennai to Pondicherry on 1 liter of fuel. Members of the team were delighted to top their category. They said "It’s a proud feeling for all of us today. Months of hard work and sleepless nights have been invested in preparing our vehicle. We hope we can take this forward and achieve even better results the next year.” Team Averera from IIT-BHU achieved an astounding 362.5 km/kWh in the Prototype Battery Electric Category, which is the equivalent of driving from Chennai to Bangalore on a single unit of electricity. Members of the team said, “The feeling of accomplishment is amazing. Our project is a testament to team’s hard work and perseverance. To participate and win in the first edition of Shell Eco-marathon is India is the icing on the cake.” The winning teams took home prize money totaling INR 20 Lacs. On-track Awards Teams were crowned the winners under different categories: Team DTU Supermileage from Delhi Technical University was named the winner in the ICE Urban Concept Category. Team Eco Titans from VIT University was named the winner in the ICE Prototype Category. Team AVERERA from Indian Institute of Technology – Banaras Hindu University was named the winner in the Battery Electric Prototype category On-Track Awards Winner Result ICE Urban Concept Team DTU Supermileage, Delhi Technical University 154 km/l ICE Prototype Team Eco Titans, VIT University 129.2 km/l Battery Electric Prototype Team AVERERA, Indian Institute of Technology – Banaras Hindu University 362.5 km/kWh Off-Track Awards Shell Eco-marathon is about more than winning on the track. Students are recognised for their technical innovation, design, safety and perseverance. Team AVERERA from Indian Institute of Technology – Banaras Hindu University was awarded the Safety Awards. Safety was effectively employed into the core of their design with impressive risk assessment studies. The team also displayed exceptional safety practices in their garage by maintaining a very orderly work environment free from avoidable hazards. The team also carried out travel risk assessment. Team Methodos from Government Engineering College, Barton Hill was awarded The Jugaad Award (Technical Innovation) for their use of bamboo for the body. Alternative materials that not only meets performance requirements but also consumes less energy during the lifecycle. Team AVERERA from Indian Institute of Technology – Banaras Hindu University won the The Kahani Award (Communications) for outstanding integrated communication approach for creating awareness and support for their team for Shell Eco-marathon India. The wide range of stakeholders they have reached out, their communications mix and use of multiple channels and platforms were both effective and innovative in meeting their objectives. The Make the Future festival, which commenced on December 6, 2018, saw a series of activities. People from academia and government, school children, industry representatives and members of the public were taken on a journey to explore ideas and innovation on the future of mobility. It also saw the unveiling of the world’s first flat-pack truck – the OX. The festival also brought together industry partners and expert at the Business Forum to discuss the transition to low-carbon energy. Notes to Editor About Make the Future India 2018 Held for the first time in India, Make the Future featuring Shell Eco-marathon, is a festival of ideas and innovation. It is a unique global platform for conversations, collaboration and innovations focused on world’s energy challenges. In India, the event focuses on “Powering progress in mobility, together”. The four-day event will feature bright energy ideas and solutions that address the global energy challenge: how to meet the energy demands of the future, while producing less CO2. Taking place at Madras Motor Race Track from December 6-9, 2018, the event will host thousands of visitors, inviting them to experience the ideas, contribute their own and join the journey to an energy-efficient, low-carbon future. About Shell Eco-Marathon India Shell Eco-marathon is a competition for students who are passionate about developing innovative mobility solutions. It brought together 247 students from 20 student teams, challenging them to design, build and drive energy efficient vehicles. It challenges engineering, design, science and technology students to design, build and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Shell Eco-marathon is a visible demonstration of Shell’s commitment to help the world meet its growing energy needs in a responsible way by working together with students, partners and other stakeholders. Teams from colleges/universities across India will compete in an exciting head-to-toe race to see who has the most energy-efficient vehicle. Shell’s global STEM education programme, NXplorers, comes to New Delhi Dec 18, 2018 New Delhi: Shell brings its global Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education programme, NXplorers to New Delhi. Launched in the presence of Shri Manish Sisodia, Deputy Chief Minister, Delhi, in a programme attended by students, school principals, teachers and media at the Rajendra Prasad Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, President Estate, New Delhi, NXplorers has already reached over 30 schools in New Delhi. NXplorers is an endeavor by Shell to nurture young minds to design sustainable solutions to ease the pressure on food, water and energy supply using a unique combination of Systems Thinking, Scenario Planning and Theory of Change. The programme is being rolled out across four states and aims to reach 3000 schools and 2,60,000 students between 14-19 years of age by 2020 in India. Launched in 2017, NXplorers is available in 14 countries including India, Brazil, Egypt, Nigeria Kazakhstan, Australia, Oman, Qatar, UAE, China, Brunei, Singapore, Philippines and Trinidad. Speaking on the occasion, Chief Guest, Shri Manish Sisodia said, “I congratulate Shell and Learning Links Foundation for launching the NXplorers initiative and giving an opportunity to children to identify problems and develop sustainable solutions. The programme is in line with our focus on providing quality educational and developmental opportunities to students of government run schools. We need to encourage students to think out of the box, think local and instill a thinking to challenge the existing and go beyond the textbook to find solutions beyond the obvious. We want to create a generation that is not just seeking jobs in the future but is empowered and capable to offer job opportunities for others. Let us shape young minds today to become the leaders of tomorrow.” Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India also added, “Food, water and energy systems that form the foundation of growth for India and other countries across the world are tightly interlinked. Water is needed to extract energy and generate power; energy is needed to treat and transport water; and both water and energy are needed to grow food. This creates a critical nexus or a series of connections. Shell NXplorers aims to instill complex and creative thinking skills in young Indian minds to bring about a positive change to our country’s food-water-energy nexus. Students explore issues and causes, create actions and design solutions to power sustainable growth for India and the world. We are grateful to the government of Delhi for giving us the opportunity to partner with us for this programme and we aim to increase participation of the schools in the region in the next three years.” Programme Highlights: Delivered mainly at government and municipality schools in its first year with special focus on girl students A facilitated programme where teachers and students learn about and engage in real world issues through three stages: Explore, where students identify the issues, its causes, and ways to dig deeper into the issue Create, where students identify the actions needed to bring about the change, and envision the preferred future Change, students design the roadmap to reach the preferred future Learning Links Foundation (LLF), a non-profit organisation dedicated to enhancing the quality of education, promoting innovation and developing future ready citizens has been selected to implement the NXplorer programme in India Some of the projects being carried out by students include: biogas production from the local food/agricultural waste, smart drainage system using algae and bacteria, ‘seedographer’ that improves resource use efficiency in agricultural farms, smart irrigation system that can help farmers to optimize water usage. About Shell in India: Shell is one of the most diversified international energy company in India with over 7000 employees, 200,000 retail customers and a 250 - strong distribution network. It brings world-class energy solutions across traditional, new energies and its derivatives to individuals and enterprises. Shell’s Lubricants business is active across the full lubricant supply chain - manufacturing base oils, blending base oils with additives to make finished lubricants, and distributes, markets and sells lubricants in over 100 countries. Shell’s retail presence in India spans five states – Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Shell operates a LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira in a joint venture with Total. Through its subsidiary, BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields. India is home to Shell’s world class centres carrying out operations, IT and innovation mandates in Bangalore and Chennai. The company is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovations with the Shell E4 programme for startups, Shell Eco-marathon and investments in new energy companies like Husk Power. Shell remains committed to making positive contributions to the communities in which we operate through NXplorers, Access to Energy and Road Safety across India. Follow @shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar to know how we are redefining the energy space. Enquiries Sneha Dev Senior Account Manager, Edelman India Sneha.dev@edelman.com / +91-9958000706 Rupali Pant Senior Account Executive, Edelman India rupali.pant@edelman.com/ +91-8377860539 News and Media Releases 2017Media releases published in 2017 by Shell in India Shell launches programme to support energy start-ups Dec 01, 2017 With the vision to bring more "energy" to the Indian startup community, Shell India is inviting all energy and IT startups to enter its pan-India programme, Shell E4 (Energizing and Enabling Energy Entrepreneurs). Shell opens new state-of-the-art technology centre in Bangalore Mar 31, 2017 Shell today opened a new major technology hub in Bangalore - a 52 acre, custom built technology centre - that can house up to 1,500 experts, who would collaboratively work on worldwide innovative energy projects. Shell #makethefuture calls all bright energy start-ups Jan 16, 2017 Launching for the first time in India, Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017 is calling all energy start-ups to enter a national competition that will help develop their bright energy business ideas. Winners of #MakeTheFuture Accelerator India Mar 02, 2017 Shell unveils shortlisted start-ups of #makethefuture Accelerator India helping to develop more and cleaner energy ideas for the future. Team Astra from Indian Institute of Technology, Raipur qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Astra is a group of 10 students from Indian Institute of Technology, Raipur who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. Team Averera from Indian Institute of Technology, Varanasi qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Averera is a group of 11 students from Indian Institute of Technology, Varanasi who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. Team Bits from Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Bits is a group of 25 students from Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. Team Eco-Titans from VIT University, Vellore qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Eco-Titans is a group of 20 students from VIT University, Vellore who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. Team Futuramic from Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Futuramic, a team of 24 members from Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, Karnataka, is one of the 12 Indian teams that have qualified for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. Team Infieon Supermileage from Chennai’s SRM University qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Infieon Supermileage is a group of 26 students from SRM University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. Team Kaizen from Gujrat’s Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU) selected for the final phases of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Kaizen, a group of 23 engineering students from Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, is one of the 12 Indian teams that have qualified for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. Shell Is ‘On Top Of The World’ With New Music Video Featuring Monali Thakur, Jennifer Hudson And Other International Artistes Dec 01, 2017 Music video is the next chapter of Shell’s award-winning #makethefuture campaign on clean energy initiatives Team Panthera wins the perseverance and Spirit Award At The Make The Future Singapore Festival Mar 20, 2018 The first-ever Make the Future Singapore, a festival of ideas and innovation for Asia saw around 123 student teams representing each of the 20 countries participating in the eighth edition of Shell Eco-marathon Asia where student teams from Asia Pacific and the Middle East showcase their self-built vehicles. The 4 day festival held at the Changi Exhibition Centre, Singapore is celebrating the best of energy and mobility. Shell launches LNG Outlook Feb 20, 2017 Global demand for liquefied natural gas (LNG) reached 265 million tonnes (MT) in 2016 – enough to supply power to around 500 million homes a year. This included an increase in net LNG imports of 17 MT. Shell launches programme to support energy start-ups Dec 01, 2017 New Delhi, October 10, 2017: With the vision to bring more “energy” to the Indian startup community, Shell India is inviting all energy and IT startups to enter its pan-India programme, Shell E4 (Energizing and Enabling Energy Entrepreneurs). With Shell E4 program, Shell is scouting for startups and businesses in early, pilot, or post-pilot stages to collaborate and work together on ideas that have the potential to impact the future of energy. Shell will work with the selected cohort for a period of six months and provide them with access to Shell’s Technology and IT labs in Bangalore, technical and commercial mentorship from within and outside of Shell, access to potential customers through its network of partners and a fixed sum investment of upto $20,000 per startup. The Shell E4 program builds upon the company’s global vision to support the energy sector’s evolving ecosystem. Shell has a rich history of working with entrepreneurs across the energy value chain globally. For cleaner energy solutions, Shell also introduced Make The Future campaign, under which #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017 was concluded in March this year. The programme was a platform for millennials to showcase their bright energy ideas to build solutions for the future energy challenges both globally and in India. Commenting on the launch of the programme, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, "At Shell, we believe that the answers to energy challenges lie in the power of innovation. With this programme, we aim to provide a platform to energy startups that have the potential to impact the future of energy. The Shell E4 Program provides a platform for collaboration and conversation around valuable energy transitions, offering startups an opportunity to bring their ideas to life with Shell’s guidance and support". Shell E4 will be located at the Shell Technology Centre Bangalore (STCB) and, is well positioned to leverage the vibrant Bengaluru ecosystem. The important dates are: Event Dates Announcement of applications October 06, 2017 Application closes November 17, 2017 Commencement of 1st cohort December 04, 2017 Following the evaluation, the selected startups will form the 1st cohort and will be incubated with Shell for a period of 6 months at their campus in Bangalore. As part of the incubation, the cohort will gain exposure to Shell’s advanced infrastructure and IT facilities; technical and commercial mentorship; an opportunity to pitch their ideas to other potential investors and an access to Shell’s network of partners and customers in India and abroad. In addition to this, Shell will also make a fixed amount of investment. For more details and to apply visit www.shell.in Notes to Editors: Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 6000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas and condensate fields (PMT fields). Shell also holds a 32.5% equity stake in Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL). MGL has to its credit the distinction of pioneering the natural gas distribution network in Mumbai and its neighboring areas. Shell’s Global Technology Network Shell Technology Centre Bangalore is one of three global technology hubs, alongside those in Houston, USA and Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. They form part of an integrated network of technology centres, which includes several smaller technical centres located close to our customers and other partners and provide tailored services. Enquiries: Priyanka Dube Country Advisor, External Relations priyanka.dube@shell.com Arpita Kedia Edelman India arpita.kedia@edelman.com Shell opens new state-of-the-art technology centre in Bangalore Mar 31, 2017 National: Shell today opened a new major technology hub in Bangalore - a 52 acre, custom built technology centre - that can house up to 1,500 experts, who would collaboratively work on worldwide innovative energy projects. The inauguration was conducted in the presence of Chief Guest Shri. Dharmendra Pradhan, Hon’ble Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Govt of India, along with His Excellency Mr Alphonsus Stoelinga, Hon'ble Ambassador of Netherlands to India, Shri. R.V. Deshpande, Hon’ble Minister for Industries, Govt. of Karnataka and Shri. Krishna Byre Gowda, Hon’ble Minister for Agriculture, Govt. of Karnataka. Commenting on the opening of Shell Technology Centre Bangalore, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan said “India has an opportunity to make a significant contribution to the world's incremental energy needs in the years ahead. Shell is developing a waste to fuel technology called IH2 at the Technology Centre in Bengaluru that takes only a few minutes to achieve what nature requires a million years to do. This IH2 technology can be one of the game changers that can make my country a net exporter of energy. 1500 young scientists of Indian origin who will work at the Shell Technology Centre Bengaluru are India's contribution to meeting the world's energy requirement”. The Bangalore Shell Technology Centre is one of the three main technology hubs in Shell’s global network of R&D centres, with the other two located in the Netherlands and the USA. The new centre houses a variety of technical experts, laboratories and technology demonstration units. It is home to a wide spectrum of technical disciplines and has specific expertise in fields such as liquefied natural gas, subsurface modelling, data analysis, engineering design, bitumen, distillation, water technology and enhanced computational research. The centre is also helping pioneer efforts - using its IH2 (waste to fuel) technology - to turn forestry, agricultural and municipal waste into transportation fuels, with a new demonstration plant being built at the site. Harry Brekelmans, Shell’s Projects & Technology Director, present for the centre’s opening said “Innovation and technology are vital to providing more and cleaner energy solutions for a growing world population. We consider R&D a fundamental part of Shell’s past and future success. Therefore, we continue to invest in people, projects and facilities, such as this high-tech hub Successful innovation, however, is more than just making balanced investments. Collaboration across different disciplines and with other sectors externally is a key enabler of successful innovation. And collaboration is essential to meet our biggest challenge: timely development and deployment of the best and affordable energy solutions, for today and for the future as the world transitions to a low carbon energy system. Our new Bangalore technology hub brings together the right people in a city that is synonymous with innovation” Specialists at Shell Technology Centre Bangalore work closely with experts from external industrial partners, universities and institutes. These collaborations help to ensure a healthy influx of new ideas and speed up the deployment of new technology in our operations. Examples include chemistry and catalysis research with the Indian Institutes of Technology and collaboration with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the area of advanced computing. Nitin Prasad, Chairman of Shell Companies in India added,“We are pleased to announce the opening of Shell Technology Centre in Bangalore, which shall function as the Asia technology hub for the Shell group. Being the third of its kind globally, it is a hallmark of Shell group’s commitment to India and to a low-carbon Indian energy future. Shell sees India as a heartland-of-talent, proficient at generating best-in-class ideas, insights and business models and thus our centre’s establishment is quite complementary to the government’s focus on innovation and their keenness to build world-class technological skills in India for India. The centre is slated to play a prominent role in Shell India’s aspiration to custom-build a portfolio of new energy solutions specifically suited to India’s energy challenges. The IH2 – waste to fuel - technology that we are currently piloting here in Bangalore, among other automotive solutions in fuels and lubricants, is an example of that vision coming to life. As this centre becomes fully functional and scales up, we hope to work on several more pioneering technologies that will contribute to India’s and the region’s sustainable energy future.” Sada Iyer, Vice President Engineering said, “The new STCB centre brings together R&D staff who previously worked at separate locations in Bangalore, and provides additional space for high-tech innovation and demonstration facilities. By housing all R&D staff in one centre, the technology hub will create new opportunities for multidisciplinary collaboration, and drive relevant and affordable innovations for India and the world.” To complement the centre’s opening and the global ‘Make The Future’ campaign, Shell brought the ‘‘#makethefuture Accelerator’ programme to India for the first time. The competition aims to encourage and accelerate the eco-system of start-ups for the development of bright energy ideas around the world. As part of its India chapter, after contending with several other participants on parameters of innovation, sustainability, disruptive nature of entry and impact to India, Graviky Labs Pvt Ltd, a Bangalore based start -up won this year’s competition. Their business idea is based on a retrofit technology that repurposes vehicular air pollution into art ink, known as ‘Kaalink’. Graviky Labs Pvt Ltd has been awarded a prize money of ₹10 lakh. The programme will help the businesses to build a strong value proposition and enable them to access funding to scale. At the event - as a testimony of Shell’s commitment to an energy efficient future - the Shell Concept Car was showcased under ‘Make The Future Mobility’. The car is an efficient concept city car co-engineered by Shell lubricants specialists, Geo Technology engine experts and Gordon Murray Design automotive designers.The three seater Shell Concept Car runs on petrol, weighs only 550kgs and uses 34% less energy over its entire lifetime compared to a typical petrol-powered city car. It has already completed 4,800km on test tracks and rolling roads where it achieved a mileage of 38km/litres at the speed of 70kmph. The ultra-compact concept car which uses a bespoke formulation of the Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology, has been designed using the best of today’s technology to deliver reductions in lifetime energy usage. The specifically ‘designed’ engine oil, is a pioneering 0W-12 formulation, one of the very latest viscosity grades. It not only complements and enhances the overall efficiency of the vehicle, but also helps enhance fuel economy of the vehicle by 5%. Shell states that all of the above - Shell Technology Centre, IH2, Make The Future Accelerator, and Make The Future Mobility - are initiatives through which it aims to transform lives by working with investors, communities, citizens, leaders and influencers to bring more and cleaner energy to communities in India and across the world. For more details visit: www.shell.in #makethefuture Notes to Editors: Shell’s Global Technology Network Shell Technology Centre Bangalore is one of three global technology hubs, alongside those in Houston, USA and Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. They form part of an integrated network of technology centres, which includes several smaller technical centres located close to our customers and other partners and provide tailored services. Shell in India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with over 6000 employees. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. It maintains a significant presence in the country with its lubricants and retail businesses. Shell also has a technology center, a financial business operations center, an in-house global IT center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas and condensate fields (PMT fields). Shell also holds a 32.5% equity stake in Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL). MGL has to its credit the distinction of pioneering the natural gas distribution network in Mumbai and its neighboring areas. Enquiries: Priyanka Dube Country Advisor, External Relations priyanka.dube@shell.com Attrika Hazarika Account Manager Attrika.Hazarika@edelman.com 85276 11616 Shell #makethefuture calls all bright energy start-ups Jan 16, 2017 Launching for the first time in India, Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017 is calling all energy start-ups to enter a national competition that will help develop their bright energy business ideas. The winning start-up will be awarded prize money of 10 lakh INR along with mentorship by senior Shell and industry leaders that will help build a strong value proposition and enable them to access funding to scale. Shell calls for entries to #makethefuture Accelerator India at www.shell.in Top 3 Finalists to be part of Shell Make the Future Singapore festival Winner will receive 10 lakh INR in prize money, coaching and the opportunity to further develop their idea 10 Semi-finalists to get a chance to showcase their ideas to Industry Experts at Shell Technology Centre Bangalore Registrations open between 16th January to 3rd February National, January 16 2017 : Shell is calling all energy start-ups to enter a national competition that will help develop their bright energy business ideas. The Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017, launched in India for the first time, aims to encourage and accelerate the development of ideas that can help provide more and cleaner energy solutions. Globally, we are using more energy than ever before. At the same time, the significance of climate change means the world must reduce CO2 emissions. We need innovative thinking to make today's energy go further and to find cleaner energy to take us towards a lower carbon world. Great ideas come from conversation, collaboration, partnerships; great minds coming together. The aim of the Shell #makethefuture Accelerator India programme is to seek out and support solutions for our energy future. Commenting on the launch of the programme, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, “At Shell, we believe that collaboration is vital to our purpose of 'powering progress together for more and cleaner energy' and to solve the complex global energy challenges. The #makethefuture Accelerator programme provides a platform for innovation, collaboration and conversation around the energy transitions and global energy future while offering a chance for energy start-ups with bright ideas to demonstrate their ability in bringing those ideas to life” Shell #makethefuture currently supports seven bright energy ideas globally including GravityLight, a UK start-up that, with Shell’s support, recently launched their clean energy solution to communities in Kenya. Now, Shell is bringing the #makethefuture Accelerator programme to India to give start-ups across the country the opportunity to collaborate showcasing and developing their bright energy ideas. Who can apply The competition is open to startups with products, technologies, services or initiatives that fulfil one or more of the following criteria: improves energy efficiency reduces energy waste; reduces CO2 emissions; generates energy from a new source broadens access to energy. Enterprises must: Operate in an Indian city Have an India registered entity Be in post-pilot or prototype stage Be a part of Make the Future Singapore festival and win 10 lakh INR Interested energy start-ups will need to apply through an application form available on Shell’s India website. Registration opens on 16th January and will close by midnight 3rd February. The top 3 finalists will get the opportunity to participate in an Accelerator Event, gather useful insights for their final pitch presentation and connect with like-minded energy start-ups from across the world at Make the Future Singapore, a festival of ideas and innovation for Asia being held in March 2017. During the Accelerator event, the finalists will receive coaching from experts, network and exchange tips with other Asian start-ups on how to grow their ideas into a reality. These top 3 finalists will then pitch their ideas to an esteemed jury including senior leaders from Shell and Nitin Prasad, Chairman of Shell India at the launch of the Shell Technology Centre Bangalore by March end 2017. Seven semi-finalists will be invited to also showcase their ideas to leaders from business, government and media at the launch event. The winning start-up will be awarded prize money of 10 lakh INR along with mentorship by senior Shell and industry leaders that will help build a strong value proposition and enable them to access funding to scale. Activity Timeline Registration Opens January 16, 2017 Registration Closes February 03, 2017 Announcement of shortlisted candidates Mid-February 2017 Accelerator Event, Singapore March 16-19, 2017 Pitch Presentation and Winner announcement End March, 2017 Winners of #MakeTheFuture Accelerator India Mar 02, 2017 Shell unveils shortlisted start-ups of #makethefuture Accelerator India helping to develop more and cleaner energy ideas for the future The Shell #makethefuture initiative is aimed at inspiring the development of more and clean energy solutions by supporting India’s smartest start-ups Three shortlisted start-ups to get a chance to showcase their ideas to Industry Experts, Venture capital and investor community representatives at Shell Technology Centre Bangalore Top three Finalists to be part of Shell Make the Future Singapore, a festival of ideas and innovation for Asia Winner to receive INR10 lakh in prize money, mentorship and the opportunity to further develop their idea National, 2 March, 2017: Shell today announced the top three shortlisted finalists for the #makethefuture Accelerator India 2017. The national level competition received a positive response with applications from over 50 bright energy start-ups. These start-ups were evaluated by an esteemed jury comprising of senior leaders from Shell on parameters such as innovation, sustainability, disruptive nature of entry and impact to India. Launched in India for the first time, the #makethefuture Accelerator aims to encourage and accelerate the development of bright ideas that can help provide more and cleaner energy solutions. The top three shortlisted start-ups are: Carbon Masters India Pvt. Ltd (Bangalore) – Builds a lower carbon, cost effective renewable energy alternative called ‘Carbon Lites’ – bottled bio CNG product - that can be used in commercial kitchens instead of LPG Smart Joules Pvt. Ltd. (New Delhi) - Delivers energy cost savings to India's buildings and factories by transforming their energy infrastructure by installing their equipment called ‘De Joule’. Its first project has generated more than 28% annual energy savings, and has won multiple awards including the first prize in India’s National Energy Conservation Awards and CII’s National Award for Excellence in Energy Management Graviky Labs Pvt. Ltd. (Bangalore) - Captures air pollution using a retrofitted technology called ‘Kaalink’ to repurpose vehicular emissions into art ink Commenting on the selection of the shortlisted finalists, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said: “Commenting on the selection of the shortlisted finalists, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said: “We are delighted with the enthusiasm and the number of responses from various enthusiastic start-ups. Many of the ideas were truly thought provoking and we are grateful to the entrepreneurs for sharing these with us. Shell believes that collaboration is key to finding energy solutions for the future and the quality of applications received only reinforces our belief in the bright young minds of India. The jury had a tough time selecting the top three start-ups. We congratulate the shortlisted teams. These ideas are not just innovative but have the potential to solve complex energy challenges. We look forward to provide these energy start-ups with a platform to demonstrate their ability in bringing those ideas to life.” Malena Cutuli, Group Head of Integrated Brand Communications & Capability at Shell, said: “Shell recognises that some of the best ideas come from outside our business, which is why we are helping some of the brightest innovators to accelerate the development of their bright energy ideas. We look forward to celebrating our support of entrepreneurs through our #makethefuture campaign, which will come to life at the inauguration of Shell Technology Centre in Bengaluru. I am optimistic that the innovations by these inspirational young entrepreneurs who have really immersed themselves in the conversation around the global energy future will inspire us in the most significant way. I personally congratulate them and look forward to the launch event.” The top three finalists will attend Make the Future Singapore, a festival of ideas and innovation for Asia, and meet with Shell Eco-marathon students, like minded innovators from the region and senior Shell leaders. They will be invited to the inauguration of Shell Technology Centre Bangalore (STCB) to participate in the accelerator event and pitch their ideas to an esteemed jury including senior leaders from Shell on March 30, 2017. Senior leaders from the start-up space in India, energy engaged entrepreneurs, Shell leadership and media will be present during the event. The winner will be felicitated by the Chief Guest at the inauguration of Shell Technology Centre in Bangalore on March 31, 2017. The winning start-up will be awarded prize money of INR10 lakh along with mentorship by senior Shell and industry leaders that will help build a strong value proposition and help enable them to access funding to scale. Important dates Events Date Accelerator Event, Singapore March 16-17, 2017 Accelerator Event and Pitch Presentation to Jury March 30, 2017 Felicitation of Winner March 31, 2017 For more details visit: www.shell.in Team Astra from Indian Institute of Technology, Raipur qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Astra is a group of 10 students from Indian Institute of Technology, Raipur who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. The selected teams will travel to Singapore to be part of the final phase of SEM where they will compete with similar teams from other parts of the world to design, build, test and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Team Astra is designing a prototype under the electric vehicle category and expects to provide a mileage of around 100km per kWh. The prototype focuses on maximizing utilization of the energy which is stored in the battery for propulsion of the vehicle. The main objective of the team is to reduce the losses faced by the vehicle, which include aerodynamic, rolling resistance, chassis and the drivetrain losses. The student team believes that through SEM they have an opportunity to contribute in making mobility more sustainable and environment-friendly. A common notion that prevails among people are that Indian teams do not perform well in SEM. Through hard work, dedication and perseverance, the team is focused in breaking this stereotype and reaching the SEM 2018 final phase to be held in Singapore. Speaking on the competition, Satvik Sabarad, Team Manager of Team Astra said, “The increasing CO2 emissions, deteriorating air quality and pollution is a big concern toady for the world. We think that change is only possible if each and everyone of us work towards creating cleaner energy solutions. This very thought motivated us to participate in Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018. We are working on an e-vehicle prototype considering it is one of the big development in the smart mobility space and will help in addressing the energy challenges. The competition encourages innovation among students and provides an ideal platform for infusion of concepts, creativity and groupwork that is essential for the development of that one big idea that can break barriers in our efforts to create a sustainable solution in the areas of clean energy and future mobility.” Commenting on the entries received this year, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman at Shell Companies in India said, “Make the Future is Shell’s endeavour to find truly sustainable solutions that can resolve the industrial world’s dilemma of decarbonization. It is a humungous task, and at Shell, we believe it is the members of the young world who have an immense capability to usher in the change and chart the way towards a responsible and bright future. India’s participation in Shell Eco-marathon Asia in the last few years has been commendable, and we are delighted to see an overwhelming response from students this year as well. I wish them all the very best for the next phase of the competition. Shell India will extend its support to the teams in the best possible manner.” In the final of the competition which is running its eighth edition in Singapore between 8 -11 March 2018, universities which have been selected to represent India are K.J. Somaiya College Of Engineering; SRM University, Chennai; RV College of Engineering; VIT University; Delhi Technological University; Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University; Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University; Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS); National Institute of Technology Raipur; SRM University Delhi – NCR; Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University. Team Averera from Indian Institute of Technology, Varanasi qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Averera is a group of 11 students from Indian Institute of Technology, Varanasi who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. The selected teams will travel to Singapore to be part of the final phase of SEM where they will compete with similar teams from other parts of the world to design, build, test and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Team Averera is designing a prototype under the electric vehicle category and expects to provide a mileage of 350 km/hr. The prototype is a light weight three-wheeled electric vehicle with customized motor controller, whose body has been extensively optimized for reducing drag to increase efficiency. The student team believes that through SEM they have an opportunity to contribute in making mobility more sustainable and environment-friendly. A common notion that prevails among people are that Indian teams do not perform well in SEM. Through hard work, dedication and perseverance, the team is focused in breaking this stereotype and reaching the SEM 2018 final phase to be held in Singapore. Speaking on the competition, Somesh Jaiswal, Team Manager of Team Averera said, “The looming threat of the fuel crisis and the increasing CO2 emissions worldwide, has dawned upon us the realization of our responsibilities as engineers and a responsible citizen which has motivated us to participate in Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018. We are working on an e-vehicle prototype this year, considering it is the next big thing in the smart mobility space and will help in addressing the energy challenges, the world is facing today. The competition encourages innovation among students and provides an ideal platform for infusion of concepts, creativity and groupwork that is essential for the development of that one big idea that can break barriers in our efforts to create a sustainable solution in the areas of clean energy and future mobility.” Commenting on the entries received this year, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman at Shell Companies in India said, “Make the Future is Shell’s endeavour to find truly sustainable solutions that can resolve the industrial world’s dilemma of decarbonization. It is a humungous task, and at Shell, we believe it is the members of the young world who have an immense capability to usher in the change and chart the way towards a responsible and bright future. India’s participation in Shell Eco-marathon Asia in the last few years has been commendable, and we are delighted to see an overwhelming response from students this year as well. I wish them all the very best for the next phase of the competition. Shell India will extend its support to the teams in the best possible manner.” In the final of the competition which is running its eighth edition in Singapore between 8 -11 March 2018, universities which have been selected to represent India are K.J. Somaiya College Of Engineering; SRM University, Chennai; RV College of Engineering; VIT University; Delhi Technological University; Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University; Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University; Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS); National Institute of Technology Raipur; SRM University Delhi – NCR; Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University. Team Bits from Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Bits is a group of 25 students from Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), Pilani who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. The selected teams will travel to Singapore to be part of the final phase of SEM where they will compete with similar teams from other parts of the world to design, build, test and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Team Bits is designing an urban prototype under the ethanol category and expects to provide a mileage of around 90 KMPL. The vehicle is a carbon fiber monocoque hybrid. Team Bits have been participating in SEM for more than five years now and have gained quality experience from this platform. The exposure to senior leadership, innovative technologies, interface with student teams from across Asia, etc., have motivated the young energy minds to participate this year as well. Through hard work, dedication and perseverance, the team is focused in reaching the SEM 2018 final phase to be held in Singapore and hope to win the competition. The student team believes that through SEM they have an opportunity to contribute in making mobility more sustainable and environment-friendly. Speaking on the competition, Yashashvi Tiwari, Team Manager of Team Bits said, “We have been participating in Shell Eco-marathon since past few years. It is a great opportunity and an honour to participate in SEM. SEM is a platform where young energy minds from across the globe comes together and discuss about the energy challenges and develop innovative solutions to address the energy crisis. The competition encourages innovation among students and provides an ideal platform for infusion of concepts, creativity and groupwork that is essential for the development of that one big idea that can break barriers in our efforts to create a sustainable solution in the areas of clean energy and future mobility.” Commenting on the entries received this year, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman at Shell Companies in India said, “Make the Future is Shell’s endeavour to find truly sustainable solutions that can resolve the industrial world’s dilemma of decarbonization. It is a humungous task, and at Shell, we believe it is the members of the young world who have an immense capability to usher in the change and chart the way towards a responsible and bright future. India’s participation in Shell Eco-marathon Asia in the last few years has been commendable, and we are delighted to see an overwhelming response from students this year as well. I wish them all the very best for the next phase of the competition. Shell India will extend its support to the teams in the best possible manner.” In the final of the competition which is running its eighth edition in Singapore between 8 -11 March 2018, universities which have been selected to represent India are K.J. Somaiya College Of Engineering; SRM University, Chennai; RV College of Engineering; VIT University; Delhi Technological University; Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University; Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University; Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS); National Institute of Technology Raipur; SRM University Delhi – NCR; Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University. Team Eco-Titans from VIT University, Vellore qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Eco-Titans is a group of 20 students from VIT University, Vellore who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. The selected teams will travel to Singapore to be part of the final phase of SEM where they will compete with similar teams from other parts of the world to design, build, test and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Team Eco-titans is designing a prototype under the gasoline category and expects to provide a mileage of around 150 kmpl. The prototype has been designed keeping three objectives in mind – minimum weight, maximum coasting distance and fuel efficiency. Team Eco-titans have been participating in SEM for more than eight years now and have gained quality experience from this platform. The exposure to senior leadership, innovative technologies, interface with student teams from across Asia, etc., have motivated the young energy minds to participate this year as well. Through hard work, dedication and perseverance, the team is focused in reaching the SEM 2018 final phase to be held in Singapore and hope to win the competition. The student team believes that through SEM they have an opportunity to contribute in making mobility more sustainable and environment-friendly. Speaking on the competition, Prabhat Khetrapal, Team Manager of Team Eco-Titans said, “We have been participating in Shell Eco-marathon since past few years and the experience have been enriching. It is a great opportunity provided by Shell to the young energy minds from across the globe. SEM brings together the millennials and discuss about the energy challenges and help them develop innovative solutions to address the energy crisis. The competition encourages innovation among students and provides an ideal platform for infusion of concepts, creativity and groupwork that is essential for the development of that one big idea that can break barriers in our efforts to create a sustainable solution in the areas of clean energy and future mobility.” Commenting on the entries received this year, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman at Shell Companies in India said, “Make the Future is Shell’s endeavour to find truly sustainable solutions that can resolve the industrial world’s dilemma of decarbonization. It is a humungous task, and at Shell, we believe it is the members of the young world who have an immense capability to usher in the change and chart the way towards a responsible and bright future. India’s participation in Shell Eco-marathon Asia in the last few years has been commendable, and we are delighted to see an overwhelming response from students this year as well. I wish them all the very best for the next phase of the competition. Shell India will extend its support to the teams in the best possible manner.” In the final of the competition which is running its eighth edition in Singapore between 8 -11 March 2018, universities which have been selected to represent India are K.J. Somaiya College Of Engineering; SRM University, Chennai; RV College of Engineering; VIT University; Delhi Technological University; Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University; Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University; Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS); National Institute of Technology Raipur; SRM University Delhi – NCR; Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University. Team Futuramic from Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Futuramic, a team of 24 members from Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, Karnataka, is one of the 12 Indian teams that have qualified for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. The selected teams will travel to Singapore to be part of the final phase of SEM where they will compete with similar teams from other parts of the world to design, build, test and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Team Futuramic has been participating in this contest from the past 3 years and have made 3 cars so far. They have been applauded for their consistent performance every year. The student team is participating under the Gasoline category, this year. The prototype has a 100cc motorcycle engine and is expected to provide a mileage of 100+ kmpl in the Atharva Urban Concept. The vehicle has an engine control unit (ECU) with fuel injection, which has been specifically programmed and tuned for high mileage and efficiency. This is coupled with super light, stiff aluminum chassis which is believed to help in the low kerb weight. Overcoming all the hardships, the team has managed to come a long way and hope to reach Singapore for the SEM 2018 final phase. Hurdles like insufficient funds, lack of mentorship and guidance, technical support, etc., have only made them stronger and kept them motivated to continue working towards creating innovative bright energy solutions to the energy challenges we are facing. Speaking on the competition, Abhinandan Prabhu, Team Manager of Team Futuramic said,” It is a great opportunity and an honour for us to participate in Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018. The competition encourages innovation among students and provides an ideal platform for infusion of concepts, creativity and groupwork that is essential for the development of that one big idea that can break barriers in our efforts to create a sustainable solution in the areas of clean energy and future mobility.” Commenting on the entries received this year, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman at Shell Companies in India said, “Make the Future is Shell’s endeavour to find truly sustainable solutions that can resolve the industrial world’s dilemma of decarbonization. It is a humungous task, and at Shell, we believe it is the members of the young world who have an immense capability to usher in the change and chart the way towards a responsible and bright future. India’s participation in Shell Eco-marathon Asia in the last few years has been commendable, and we are delighted to see an overwhelming response from students this year as well. I wish them all the very best for the next phase of the competition. Shell India will extend its support to the teams in the best possible manner.” In the final of the competition which is running its eighth edition in Singapore between 8 -11 March 2018, universities which have been selected to represent India are K.J. Somaiya College Of Engineering; SRM University, Chennai; RV College of Engineering; VIT University; Delhi Technological University; Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University; Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University; Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS); National Institute of Technology Raipur; SRM University Delhi – NCR; Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University. Team Infieon Supermileage from Chennai’s SRM University qualifies for the final phases of Shell Eco-Marathon 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Infieon Supermileage is a group of 26 students from SRM University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu who are one of the 12 Indian teams to participate and qualify for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. The selected teams will travel to Singapore to be part of the final phase of SEM where they will compete with similar teams from other parts of the world to design, build, test and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Team Infieon Supermileage is designing a prototype under the gasoline category and expects to provide a mileage of 500 kmpl. The chassis of the prototype is inspired by the seating style used in Formula 1, which provides highest level of safety and comfort to the driver. The student team believes that through SEM they have an opportunity to contribute in making mobility more sustainable and environment-friendly. A common notion that prevails among people are that Indian teams do not perform well in SEM. Through hard work, dedication and perseverance, the team is focused in breaking this stereotype and reaching the SEM 2018 final phase to be held in Singapore. Speaking on the competition, Shreyas Ravi, Team Manager of Team Infieon Supermileage said,” We believe that with the right knowledge and hard work we can be successful and aim to qualify for the finals. We are here to break the stereotype with our prototype model which has been built upon three objectives - minimum weight, maximum coasting distance and minimum fuel consumption. We are confident that we can develop that disruptive idea which can open up new possibilities in the domain of clean energy and future mobility.” Commenting on the entries received this year, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman at Shell Companies in India said, “Make the Future is Shell’s endeavour to find truly sustainable solutions that can resolve the industrial world’s dilemma of decarbonization. It is a humungous task, and at Shell, we believe it is the members of the young world who have an immense capability to usher in the change and chart the way towards a responsible and bright future. India’s participation in Shell Eco-marathon Asia in the last few years has been commendable, and we are delighted to see an overwhelming response from students this year as well. I wish them all the very best for the next phase of the competition. Shell India will extend its support to the teams in the best possible manner.” In the final of the competition which is running its eighth edition in Singapore between 8 -11 March 2018, universities which have been selected to represent India are K.J. Somaiya College Of Engineering; SRM University, Chennai; RV College of Engineering; VIT University; Delhi Technological University; Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University; Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University; Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS); National Institute of Technology Raipur; SRM University Delhi – NCR; Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University. Team Kaizen from Gujrat’s Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU) selected for the final phases of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 Dec 01, 2017 Team Kaizen, a group of 23 engineering students from Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, is one of the 12 Indian teams that have qualified for the second phase of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018 (SEM) this year. The selected teams will travel to Singapore to be part of the final phase of SEM where they will compete with similar teams from other parts of the world to design, build, test and drive the world’s most energy efficient vehicle. Team Kaizen is working on an electric battery – urban concept prototype, this year. The prototype is expected to provide a mileage of 97.26 km/kWh and can go up to 250 KMs if the battery is fully charged. The prototype is designed aerodynamically with an optimized chassis to keep the vehicle as light as possible. The motor of the vehicle is a self-designed invertor circuit controlled through STM32F407G micro-controller. Overcoming all the hardships, the team has managed to come a long way and hope to reach Singapore for the SEM 2018 final phase. Speaking on the competition, Kavin Pandya, Team Manager of Team Kaizen said,” It is a great opportunity and an honour for us to participate in Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2018. The competition encourages innovation among students and provides an ideal platform for infusion of concepts, creativity and groupwork that is essential for the development of that one big idea that can break barriers in our efforts to create a sustainable solution in the areas of clean energy and future mobility.” Commenting on the entries received this year, Mr. Nitin Prasad, Chairman at Shell Companies in India said, “Make the Future is Shell’s endeavour to find truly sustainable solutions that can resolve the industrial world’s dilemma of decarbonization. It is a humungous task, and at Shell, we believe it is the members of the young world who have an immense capability to usher in the change and chart the way towards a responsible and bright future. India’s participation in Shell Eco-marathon Asia in the last few years has been commendable, and we are delighted to see an overwhelming response from students this year as well. I wish them all the very best for the next phase of the competition. Shell India will extend its support to the teams in the best possible manner.” In the final of the competition which is running its eighth edition in Singapore between 8 -11 March 2018, universities which have been selected to represent India are K.J. Somaiya College Of Engineering; SRM University, Chennai; RV College of Engineering; VIT University; Delhi Technological University; Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University; Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University; Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS); National Institute of Technology Raipur; SRM University Delhi – NCR; Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University. Shell Is ‘On Top Of The World’ With New Music Video Featuring Monali Thakur, Jennifer Hudson And Other International Artistes Dec 01, 2017 Music video is the next chapter of Shell’s award-winning #makethefuture campaign on clean energy initiatives. [National], Today, Shell and a band of international stars unveil a new music video called ‘On Top of the World’ to put the spotlight on a range of clean energy initiatives being undertaken across the world to reduce air pollution and spread awareness of their benefits. ‘On Top of the World’ features five global music artists - including Oscar-winner Jennifer Hudson, British songstress Pixie Lott and India’s very own Monali Thakur – and uses cutting-edge custom animation to help each star demonstrate the impact of clean energy projects supported by Shell around the world, including Brazil, China, the US, Kenya, India, Germany and the UK. The video showcases both ‘bright energy ideas’ created by entrepreneurs supported by #makethefuture campaign, and some projects from Shell and its partners to create cleaner energy solutions like: Shell Natural Gas: Providing cleaner cooking option with piped natural gas, combating indoor pollution, and empowering women by reducing the time they spend in the kitchen – a time they can allot to exercise their basic right to education and employment Insolar: Providing solar energy access to low income communities in Brazil GravityLight: Creating sustainable and cleaner light for families and children in Kenya Shell Partnership with Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves: Bringing clean cook stoves to families and creating healthier homes in China Shell Hydrogen: Creating additional cleaner transport choices for the future in the USA, Germany and the UK ‘On Top of the World’ is the latest chapter in the #makethefuture global energy relay, that began in 2016 with the launch of the ‘Best Day of My Life’ music video, which subsequently topped viral video charts and became one of the most viewed online videos of the year globally. Oscar-winner Jennifer Hudson, British songstress Pixie Lott, Brazilian chart-topper Luan Santana and Nigerian artist Yemi Alade reunite, and are joined by Indian talent Monali Thakur to cover the Imagine Dragons’ hit ‘On Top of the World’. In the Indian context, the music video highlights the benefits of natural gas as an alternative to dirtier form of burning fuel commonly used in India for cooking and other indoor activities. Gas is expected to play an important role in energy transition in India. Through #makethefuture initiative and the music video, Shell is engaging with the millennials to educate them about the benefits of gas and its role in combating pollution and carbon emissions. Nitin Prasad, Chairman at Shell companies in India said: “Music is a universal language of togetherness and compassion. By tapping into our passion for it with this stellar line up of artists, we can spark a global conversation around access to cleaner energy in an engaging way. Shell believes that collaboration is the key in addressing future energy challenges and through the #makethefuture campaign we are working with diverse partners including business, entrepreneurs, and artists towards unlocking more and cleaner energy solutions.” Monali Thakur said, “As an artist, I’m proud to be able to lend my voice to spread awareness among younger generations of the benefits of adopting cleaner fuels. In India, a large section of the population still depends heavily on wood or pet coke or kerosene for cooking and other indoor activities. It is essential that they are made aware of their harmful effects, and who best to do that than the younger generation and the millennials.” The music video launches today on the Shell Youtube page, and is accompanied by a suite of “Energy Explainer” films for people to find out more about each of the initiatives. To find out more about this and other #makethefuture projects, please visit shell.com/makethefuture. Team Panthera wins the perseverance and Spirit Award At The Make The Future Singapore Festival Mar 20, 2018 The first-ever Make the Future Singapore, a festival of ideas and innovation for Asia saw around 123 student teams representing each of the 20 countries participating in the eighth edition of Shell Eco-marathon Asia where student teams from Asia Pacific and the Middle East showcase their self-built vehicles. The 4 day festival held at the Changi Exhibition Centre, Singapore is celebrating the best of energy and mobility. The shortlisted 12 Indian student teams were: Team BITS (Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani), DTU Supermileage (Delhi Technological University, Delhi), Team Averera (Indian Institute of Technology – Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi), Team Panthera (Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women, Delhi), Team ETA (K.J.Somaiya College Of Engineering), Team Contriver (Mukesh Patel School of Technology Management and Engineering, Mumbai), Team Kaizen (Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University, Gandhinagar), Project Garuda (RV College of Engineering), Team Inferno, Team FUTURAMIC (Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, Bangalore), Team Hypergreen SRM University Delhi – NCR, Ghaziabad) and Team Eco-Titans (VIT university, Vellore). Team Panthera of Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women, India won the Perseverance and Spirit of the Event. They inspired not only the judges, but the young girls back home in their town. They continuously showed perseverance, both on the road to Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2017, but more importantly motivating the other teams at the competition with their resilience. As the first all-girl team from India, they went against the norm. It's not every day young girls grow up thinking they will one day be a mechanical engineer, but this group of girls went against all odds and went ahead to build their vehicle whilst still convincing their university to support their participation. Receiving official support at the last minute, the team overcome many hurdles to finally step foot on the competition ground after trying for the second year. The all girls team from Panthera was a star team at the event with the regional media, other participants and even those attending the festival keen on meeting and interacting with the enthusiastic and energetic group of mechanical engineers. So much so, that the famous singer/songwriter Pixie Lott came off stage to meet with the girls. The enthusiastic girls defied convention and silenced naysayers who told them to send boys instead when they tried to purchase raw materials for their vehicle.“We were very excited and encouraged to be given the opportunity to meet Pixie” said Team Panthera’s Kashika Tripathi, 20. Participating in Shell Eco-marathon Asia has helped prove to ourselves and others that machines and tools can equally belong in the hands of women. We hope to inspire more girls back home and from around the region to be bold in pursuing careers in science and engineering.” Nitin Prasad, Country Chairman, Shell India said, "I am very proud of Team Panthera. The all girls team were determined and had all the grit and determination needed for this exciting competition. Make the Future is an excellent platform that aims to engage with young minds and encourage innovative thinking. India's participation in SEM past few years has been commendable. We had 12 teams this year, one of the highest, and we hope to see a similar response in the future as well" Team Averera from IIT BHU’s battery electric prototype Alterno V1.2 achieved a mileage 132 km/kwhr. They look participating next year with a lot more vigour and excitement #becausepassionchangeseverything Team Hypergreen’s prototype Iresh was built with carbon fibre and it weighed only about 400 gms. The collapsible steering column and impact sensors used in the vehicle can be life-saving and ensure drivers’ safety during an accident of frontal impact. The inaugural edition of Make the Future Singapore saw more than 20,000 members of the public, alongside representatives from business, academia and government, explore the future of energy and mobility through open dialogue and thought-provoking experiential zones. On the side of Make the Future Festival in Singapore, the event also shined the spotlight on young entrepreneurs. Held as part of the opening festivities, the Shell #makethefuture Accelerator was an interactive event designed to help entrepreneurs turn their bright energy ideas into businesses that can expand across Asia. Through a combination of talks, strategy sessions and brainstorm discussions with experts from government, the media, Singapore’s thriving start-up scene, the event provided a platform for the entrepreneurs to share their challenges and get inspiration to expand their thinking. The three start-ups: Smart Joules, Graviky and Carbon Masters answer the question that growing economies like India are facing India today: how to produce more energy while reducing carbon emissions. Smart Joules, Graviky, Carbon Masters have found an innovative way to conserve more energy from buildings and reduce emissions from cars and kitchens. The three participated in the Make the Future Accelerator Singapore event and discussed, deliberated and found solutions to challenges related to business expansion across Asia, business expansion through new capital and ways to overcome the burden of regulations. They will be invited to the inauguration of Shell Technology Centre Bangalore (STCB) to participate in the accelerator event and pitch their ideas to an esteemed jury including senior leaders from Shell on March 30, 2017. Senior leaders from the start-up space in India, energy engaged entrepreneurs, Shell leadership and media will be present during the event. The winner will be felicitated by the Chief Guest at the inauguration of Shell Technology Centre in Bangalore on March 31, 2017. Note To Editors: About Shell Eco-marathon Shell Eco-marathon is a unique, global competition that challenges students to push the boundaries of energy efficiency on the road. There are three regional Shell Eco-marathon competitions held throughout the year in Asia, America and Europe. The competition provides an arena for students to test vehicles they design and build themselves. It aims to inspire young people to become scientists and engineers of the future. Shell Eco-marathon began in 1939 at a Shell research laboratory in the United States as a friendly wager between scientists to see who could get the most miles per gallon from their vehicle. In 1985 in France, Shell Eco-marathon as we know it today was born. In April 2007, the Shell Eco-marathon Americas event was launched in the United States, and in 2010, the inaugural Shell Eco-marathon Asia was held in Malaysia, up until 2013. The event was held in Manila, Philippines from 2014 to 2016 and moves to Singapore as part of the Make the Future festival for the first time in 2017. About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. With over 4500 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business operations centre, an in-house global IT centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas and condensate fields (PMT fields). Shell also holds a 32.5% equity stake in Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL). MGL has to its credit the distinction of pioneering the natural gas distribution network in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas. Enquiries: Arpita Kedia Arpita.kedia@edelman.com 9871934147 Shell launches LNG Outlook Feb 20, 2017 Global demand for liquefied natural gas (LNG) reached 265 million tonnes (MT) in 2016 – enough to supply power to around 500 million homes a year. This included an increase in net LNG imports of 17 MT. Many expected a strong increase in new LNG supplies would outpace demand growth during 2016. Instead, demand growth kept pace with supply as greater than expected demand in Asia and the Middle East absorbed the increase in supply from Australia, according to Shell’s first LNG Outlook. “Global LNG trade demonstrated its flexibility time and again in 2016, responding to shortfalls in national and regional gas supply and to new emerging demand,” said Maarten Wetselaar, Integrated Gas and New Energies Director at Shell. “The outlook for LNG demand is set to grow at twice the rate of gas demand, at 4 to 5% a year between 2015 and 2030.” China and India – which are set to continue driving a rise in demand – were two of the fastest growing buyers, increasing their imports by a combined 11.9 MT of LNG in 2016. This boosted China’s LNG imports in 2016 to 27 MT and India’s to 20 MT. Total global LNG demand increased following the addition of six new importing countries since 2015: Colombia, Egypt, Jamaica, Jordan, Pakistan and Poland. They brought the number of LNG importers to 35, up from around 10 at the start of this century. Egypt, Jordan and Pakistan were among the fastest growing LNG importers in the world in 2016. Due to local shortages in gas supplies, they imported 13.9 MT of LNG in total. The bulk of growth in LNG exports in 2016 came from Australia, where exports increased by 15 MT to a total of 44.3 MT. It was also a significant year for the USA, after 2.9 MT of LNG was delivered from the Sabine Pass terminal in Louisiana. LNG prices are expected to continue to be determined by multiple factors, including oil prices, global LNG supply and demand dynamics and the costs of new LNG facilities. In addition, the growth of LNG trade has evolved into helping meet demand when domestic gas markets face supply shortages. LNG trade also is changing to meet the needs of buyers, including shorter-term and lower-volume contracts with greater degrees of flexibility. Some emerging LNG buyers have more challenging credit ratings than traditional buyers. While the industry has been flexible in developing new demand, there has been a decrease in final investment decisions for new supply. Shell believes further investments will need to be made by the industry to meet growing demand, most of which is set to come from Asia, after 2020. In China, a government target has been set for gas to make up 15% of the country’s energy mix by 2030, up from 5% in 2015. Meanwhile, Southeast Asia is projected to become a net importer of LNG by 2035, a significant transformation for a region which includes Malaysia and Indonesia – currently among the major LNG exporters in the world. Read the full LNG Outlook at www.shell.com/lngoutlook. Shell LNG Outlook 2017 Infographic Enquiries: Cindy Lopez Head of Media Relations, Southeast Asia and South Asia cindy.lopez@shell.com Mich Villar Shell Spokesperson, Asia-Pacific mich.villar@shell.com Sonia Meyer Shell Spokesperson, Asia-Pacific sonia.meyer@shell.com Shell International Investor Relations + 31 (0) 70 377 4540 Notes to Editors: BG Group published an annual outlook on LNG. Following Shell’s acquisition of the oil and gas company, the outlook was identified as an area of work that should be continued. Shell’s first LNG Outlook which draws on a broad range of independent industry data and internal analysis. Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this release refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations” respectively. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This release contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2015 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov ). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this release, February 20, 2017. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. News and Media Releases 2016Media releases published in 2016 by Shell in India Shell continues its growth strategy, re-opens Talegaon fuel station in Pune, Maharashtra Nov 16, 2016 Total operational fuel stations in India now at 84 11th operational site in Pune Only Public Sector Unit petrol, diesel and gas stations to accept Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 notes Nov 09, 2016 National, November 9, 2016: Following the Prime Minister’s historic announcement of cancelling legal tender of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 currency from November 9, 2016, private oil and gas companies are not authorized to accept 500 and 1000 rupee notes from customers at their retail stations. Global Projects Exchange: India 2022 Oct 10, 2016 Suresh Prabhu, hon’ble minister for railways, talked to leaders from top international and Indian businesses about the critical role business must play in transforming India at an event held in New Delhi. Shell continues its growth strategy, opens its 83rd fuel station at Uttarahalli in Bangalore Aug 30, 2016 Bengaluru, August 30, 2016: Shell India today announced the opening of its fuel station in the Uttarahalli area of Bengaluru city. Shell Lubricants India Cluster appoints Ms. Mansi Madan Tripathy as its new Managing Director Jun 16, 2016 Shell Lubricants India announced the appointment of Mansi Madan Tripathy as the new Managing Director of the company. Mansi, former CMO of Shell Lubricants, would succeed Nitin Prasad, who moves on to take over as the Chairman of Shell Companies in India, with effect from Aug 1. Shell India announces new country chairman as Dr. Yasmine Hilton completes assignment May 16, 2016 New Delhi: Dr Yasmine Hilton, currently Chairman, Shell Companies in India and VP IT Project Excellence, Royal Dutch Shell (Shell) will end her assignment on 30 September 2016, after a distinguished career spanning 37 years with Shell. Mr Nitin Prasad, Country Head, Shell Lubricants will succeed Dr Hilton effective 1 October 2016. Shell launches IT centre in Bengaluru Apr 28, 2016 Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. today inaugurated its IT centre in Bengaluru. The in-house global information technology centre is expected to recruit close to 1000 professionals by the end of 2016 and several thousand by 2020. Minister Prabhu launches book on Shaping India’s Energy Future Mar 17, 2016 Shri Suresh Prabhu, Hon’ble Minister for Railways, launched the book ‘Energizing India: Towards a Resilient and Equitable Energy System. Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani lifts the perseverance and spirit of the event award at Shell Eco-Marathon Asia 2016 Mar 07, 2016 2016 sees eight winning teams from across the region surpass previous year’s mileage achievements Shell continues its growth strategy, re-opens Talegaon fuel station in Pune, Maharashtra Nov 16, 2016 Total operational fuel stations in India now at 84 11th operational site in Pune Pune, November 16, 2016: Shell India today announced the re-opening of its fuel station in the Talegaon area of Pune city. The latest development takes Shell’s total operational fuel stations in India to 84. With the opening of the Talegaon station, Shell now has 11 fuel stations in Maharashtra. Shell is currently present across the six key states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh & Assam and prides itself in offering international quality fuels, exact quantity and friendly customer service at each of its outlets. Commenting on the reopening, Mr. Ravi Sundararajan, General Manager, Shell Retail India said, “We are delighted to reconvene our services at Talegaon and strengthen our footprint in Maharashtra in line with our growth strategy for India. With the diesel price deregulation last year, our fuels are now available at market price across all outlets. Shell is proud of its tradition of providing employment opportunities to the local community, most of the employees at the Talegaon fuel station have been hired locally. We also promote diversity at work place by creating favourable conditions not only for women but also for differently-abled persons to work at the outlets”, he added. The Shell outlet is located at the Talegaon area on the Pune – Mumbai Expressway. Talegaon is not just a city exit but also a commuter transit site. Locals from the area along with transient public and long distance travellers can now take full advantage of Shell’s retail offerings. The fuel station is equipped with a convenience store and a Lube bay for two-wheelers. The outlet will also offer free services like under-bonnet check and windshield cleaning. Shell V-Power, the premium performance petrol from the Shell Fuels portfolio will also be available at the Talegaon outlet along with the main-grade petrol and diesel variants at market price. Only Public Sector Unit petrol, diesel and gas stations to accept Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 notes Nov 09, 2016 Following the Prime Minister’s historic announcement of cancelling legal tender of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000 currency from November 9, 2016, private oil and gas companies are not authorized to accept 500 and 1000 rupee notes from customers at their retail stations. In his speech Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi stated that only petrol, diesel and gas stations of PSU oil companies are mandated to accept notes of 500 and 1000 rupee denominations. The government’s press release states that: “…on humanitarian grounds notes of five hundred and one thousand rupees will be accepted at government hospitals, pharmacies in government hospitals (with prescription of a doctor), booking counters for railway tickets, government buses, airline ticket counters, petrol, diesel and gas stations of PSU oil companies, consumer cooperative stores authorized by the state or central government, milk booths authorized by state government and crematoria, burial grounds.” Speaking on the announcement, Ravi Sundararajan, ‎Director, Shell India Markets Private Limited & Cluster GM Retail, “Customer satisfaction is our core business principle and Shell aims to meet their expectations by offering the best of services. Basis the recent announcement on demonetisation of currency notes of denomination of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000, Shell retail stations - like other private fuel retail stations - cannot accept these notes for purchase of fuel. Notes of denominations Rs. 100 and below will continue to be accepted against purchases. We are also accepting all credit and debit cards issued by VISA / MASTERCARD / AMEX. Additionally customers can choose to electronically transfers money to their Shell Cash Card to pay for fuel and other purchases. We hope our valued customers will understand and co-operate with us during this period of transition. Staff at the fuel stations will be assisting customers to minimise inconvenience. We are also ensuring that there is adequate signage at these locations for ease of our customers. Some of our fuel stations are not open for operation. We are reviewing the situation and will open them as and when the situation is under control.” About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies. With over 4500 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business operations centre, an in-house global IT centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Through its subsidiary company- BG Exploration and Production India Limited, Shell holds a 30% interest in, and is joint operator of, the Panna - Mukta oil and gas fields and the Mid and South Tapti gas and condensate fields (PMT fields). Shell also holds a 32.5% equity stake in Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL). MGL has to its credit the distinction of pioneering the natural gas distribution network in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas. Global Projects Exchange: India 2022 Oct 10, 2016 Suresh Prabhu, hon’ble minister for railways, talked to leaders from top international and Indian businesses about the critical role business must play in transforming India at an event held in New Delhi. Endorsing a new business-led coalition for growth – India 2022 – the minister said: “India growing is good for the world, not just India.” The event – called the global projects exchange – was hosted by Xyntéo, Shell and the IKEA Foundation and saw the launch of a new initiative for organisations committed to aligning the Government of India’s development goals with the private sector, to create more opportunities that can contribute positively to India’s future. The ‘India 2022 coalition’ will focus on key development areas, including skills, energy, connectivity, health and rural growth. The global projects exchange is an annual event run by Xyntéo, which brings together global business leaders and connects them to ideas and opportunities that can contribute positively to global growth. Other participants this year include Naina Lal Kidwai, former CEO, HSBC India and chairman, Max Financial Services; Sairee Chahal, founder and CEO, SHEROES and Sanjiv Mehta, managing director, Hindustan Unilever. Harry Brekelmans, projects and technology director, Shell, said: “Access to energy changes the lives and life chances of people. Shell has a long history of investment in India and we remain committed to helping the country meet its energy needs. We believe that leadership and cross-sector collaboration are essential to overcoming the barriers to the energy transition. That’s why initiatives like India 2022 are so important for helping Indians gain access to clean and affordable energy.” Per Heggenes, CEO, IKEA Foundation, said: “We believe that women can be the most important catalysts for change in their children’s lives as well as in society more generally. By empowering women, we can improve children’s health, education and future – and that’s good for everyone in India. This is why we are supporting the innovative collaboration between Xyntéo and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the India Development Foundation.” Osvald Bjelland, CEO and chairman, Xyntéo, said: “At Xyntéo we believe that there is a different way to grow, where the biggest opportunities for growth are found in the most complex human problems. Our aim is to incubate leaders and their ideas and then fuse them to generate new growth opportunities. The India 2022 initiative offers an exciting opportunity for businesses from India and internationally to combine forces to meet commercial interests, while at the same time contributing positively to the country’s future.” About the IKEA Foundation The IKEA Foundation (Stichting IKEA Foundation) is the philanthropic arm of INGKA Foundation, the owner of the IKEA group companies. We aim to improve opportunities for children and youth in some of the world’s poorest communities by funding holistic, longterm programmes that can create substantial, lasting change. The IKEA Foundation works with strong strategic partners applying innovative approaches to achieve large-scale results in four fundamental areas of a child’s life: a place to call home; a healthy start in life; a quality education; and a sustainable family income. Learn more at www.ikeafoundation.org and www.facebook.com/IKEAfoundation. About Xyntéo Xyntéo is a platform for galvanising leaders and catalysing ideas - and fusing them into new projects, for new growth. Follow us on Twitter @xynteo. Shell continues its growth strategy, opens its 83rd fuel station at Uttarahalli in Bangalore Aug 30, 2016 Bengaluru, August 30, 2016: Shell India today announced the opening of its fuel station in the Uttarahalli area of Bengaluru city. The latest development takes Shell’s total operational fuel stations in India to 83, of which 30 are in Karnataka. With the opening of the Uttarahalli fuel station, Shell now has 28 fuel stations in Bengaluru. Shell is currently present across the six key states of Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh & Assam and prides itself in offering international quality fuels, exact quantity and friendly customer service at each of its outlets. Commenting on the launch, Mr. Ravi Sundararajan, General Manager, Shell Retail India said, “The regulatory environment is getting increasingly conducive for fuel retail business in India. With the diesel price deregulation last year, our fuels are now available at market price across all outlets. We are delighted to launch our services at Uttarahalli and strengthen our footprint in Karnataka in line with our growth strategy for India.” “We are confident that locals from the area along with transient public and long distance travellers will take full advantage of our retail offerings,” he added. The Shell outlet is strategically located at Uttarahalli Main Road – one of the major roads originating from the garden city and with connectivity to Mysore Road, Kanakpura Road and NICE road. The vicinity also includes the Banashankari and Rajarajeshwari residential areas, and educational institutes like Rajarajeshwari Medical College, and JSS Tech Institute. Shell V-Power, Shell’s performance petrol offering is available at the newly opened Uttarahalli outlet. This site will also offer main-grade petrol and diesel at market prices. The fuel station is equipped with a convenience store and a Lube bay for two wheelers. In addition, the outlet will also offer free services like under-bonnet check and windshield cleaning. In line with Shell’s tradition of providing employment opportunities to benefit local communities, most of the employees at the Uttarahalli fuel station will also be hired locally. The company also promotes diversity at the work place by creating favourable conditions for women and differently-abled persons, to work at the outlets. Shell Lubricants India Cluster appoints Ms. Mansi Madan Tripathy as its new Managing Director Jun 16, 2016 Shell Lubricants India announced the appointment of Mansi Madan Tripathy as the new Managing Director of the company. Mansi, former CMO of Shell Lubricants, would succeed Nitin Prasad, who moves on to take over as the Chairman of Shell Companies in India, with effect from Aug 1. Mansi brings in 20-years of marketing, sales, insights and strategy experience to the office. In her new role, she shall be responsible for leading all the business activities for the Lubricants business in India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal. Mansi has been the architect of digital marketing social media footprints for Shell Lubricants in India. Leading the marketing team at Shell Lubricants , Mansi has been an advocate of a new direction; weaving direct consumer connect, industry influencer engagement and greater awareness initiatives intractably into the company’s brand marketing strategies. With her in-depth global knowledge of the market structures, consumer psychology and trade dynamic, as MD, her focus shall be to strengthen the company’s presence in India, delighting our customers and consumers and building an organisation that’s motivated and growing. Building and maintaining relationships with key business stakeholders and streamlining the efforts of Shell Lubricants across the country shall also be an important aspect of her new role. Prior to Shell Lubricants, Mansi’s experience spans across 17 years at PG in key positions like Director for Global Male Grooming, PG and Asia Pacific Head for Consumer and Market Knowledge. As part of her global leadership roles, she has worked across countries like Geneva, Singapore and Boston; working on diverse product categories, new initiatives and equity development of global brands like Pantene, Olay, Vicks, Gillette, Pampers, Whisper, Ariel and Tide. Mansi is a B. Tech degree holder in Electronics and communication from National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra and an MBA in Marketing from S.P. Jain Institute of Management Research. Shell India announces new country chairman as Dr. Yasmine Hilton completes assignment May 16, 2016 New Delhi: Dr Yasmine Hilton, currently Chairman, Shell Companies in India and VP IT Project Excellence, Royal Dutch Shell (Shell) will end her assignment on 30 September 2016, after a distinguished career spanning 37 years with Shell. Mr Nitin Prasad, Country Head, Shell Lubricants will succeed Dr Hilton effective 1 October 2016. Yasmine Hilton began her career in Shell in 1979 in IT and went on to hold a number of senior posts in the Group including Chief Information Officer for the UK and for Shell's global Retail business, operating in all five continents. In October 2012 she took up a four year assignment as Country Chairman, the first woman leader in the Indian Oil and Gas Industry. As Chairman, Yasmine Hilton steered the company through a long-running and complex tax dispute, the favourable outcome of which was a positive one for Foreign Investment in India. She transformed the Company with an integrated One Shell India approach and a strong focus on talent development, HSSE and equality in the workplace. During her stewardship, the Company has doubled in size and achieved an excellent operational record. She personally led the creation of the new global IT Centre in Bangalore, creating thousands of new jobs. These achievements were reflected in her ranking as the ninth most powerful business woman in India by Fortune Magazine. An electrical engineer from Georgia Institute of Technology, USA and a management graduate from INSEAD, Mr Prasad took up his current appointment in 2011 as General Manager, Shell Lubricants in the third largest lubricants market in the world. He has been instrumental in turning around Lubricants business in India. His previous roles in Shell include Chemicals where he was General Manager APME Supply Chain and Senior Advisor on Downstream Strategy. Shell launches IT centre in Bengaluru Apr 28, 2016 Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. today inaugurated its IT centre in Bengaluru. The in-house global information technology centre is expected to recruit close to 1000 professionals by the end of 2016 and several thousand by 2020. The IT centre was launched in the presence of Chief Guest Shri Ravi Venkatesan, Chairman, Bank of Baroda and Guest of Honour Shrimati K. Ratnaprabha, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries and Commerce. Speaking at the IT Centre launch, Mr. Jay Crotts, Chief Information Officer, Shell Mr. Jay Crotts, Chief Information Officer, Royal Dutch Shell said “The talent in the Indian market is attractive for Shell’s operations at the global level. Shell and the future of energy are powered by IT and therefore this IT centre becomes an important strategic hub. IT contributes to the bottom line by unlocking business value through technology and innovation. Running our technology estate is a table-stake, something we have to deliver to a high-quality, consistently, day after day. Alongside that, we are providing growth and transformation opportunities to the Business via cutting-edge technology delivery, and the great people here in Bengaluru are pivotal in our ability to do that.” Speaking about the IT centre, Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, “We are pleased to announce the formal launch of our IT centre. India, especially Bengaluru, has proved to be the centre of innovation and delivery over the last decade. With its large concentration of technical institutions and talent in the state of Karnataka, Shell is keen to invest in this market and grow the IT skills required for tomorrow. This will improve our ability to provide top-quality IT project delivery and selected operations support around the world.” Shell supports the vision of Make in India and Skill India it is contributing towards the initiative by growing its largest IT Delivery engine via the IT Centre in Bengaluru. Shell has had positive offshoring experience in India, which has reinforced its belief in the availability of talent in this market. Shell IT has a global footprint of enormous scale. The company spends $4 billion on IT globally. Shell also has 4 IT Hubs including Bengaluru, The Netherlands, London & Houston giving it access to global talent. It also has a smaller presence in a number of other countries governed by business proximity needs. Minister Prabhu launches book on Shaping India’s Energy Future Mar 17, 2016 Shri Suresh Prabhu, Hon’ble Minister for Railways, launched the book ‘Energizing India: Towards a Resilient and Equitable Energy System. “I would like to congratulate Shell, CEEW and TERI for the remarkable work that they have done. The book will start a public debate towards developing long term sustainable policies to strengthen the Indian energy sector. It is a challenging time for policy makers with fluctuating fuel prices globally. The entire value chain of the energy sector is in need of innovation. There is a need for investment in exploration of oil and gas fields for a good energy mix”, said Shri Suresh Prabhu, Hon’ble Minister for Railways, at the launch of the book ‘Energizing India: Towards a Resilient and Equitable Energy System’in the capital yesterday. The book argues that India’s energy future would depend on four transitions: from traditional to modern energy, from rural to urban energy demand, greater integration into the global energy system, and technological choices that will be affected by the imperative of battling climate change. The book (authored by Suman Bery, Arunabha Ghosh, Ritu Mathur, Subrata Basu, Karthik Ganesan and Rhodri Owen-Jones) is the result of a three-year long collaboration between three leading institutions: the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) and Shell. The book focuses on India’s energy system as a whole and highlights both the demand and supply sides of the energy system, laying special emphasis on the fuel mix dimension which most directly affects both energy security and environmental sustainability between now and 2050. India is in the midst of a huge transformation as the population and economy grows, incomes rise, manufacturing becomes a bigger part of the economy and the country becomes more urbanised. This growth will drive a sustained expansion of infrastructure for energy, urban development and transportation. If India is to build an energy infrastructure commensurate with ambitions to limit greenhouse gas emissions, it must now also seriously consider infrastructure using natural gas, hydropower and nuclear energy. Commenting on the initiative, Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman Shell Companies in India said, “A global energy transition is under way as the world seeks to meet rising demand while lowering carbon emissions. Yet energy systems are large, complex and slow to change. India is in the midst of a major transformation as the population and economy grows, incomes rise, manufacturing becomes a bigger part of the economy and the country becomes more urbanised. To ensure that consumers across the country have access to clean and affordable energy, it will be important to de-risk and stimulate long-term investments in the energy sector. Our study illustrates that the private sector will play a key role in building capacity, augmenting skills and developing technology”. Jeremy Bentham, Head of the Scenarios Group at Shell adds, “We have long recognized the critical role energy has in enabling a decent quality of life for people across the world, wherever they live. Given the much-needed spread of prosperity from the minority to the majority world, the big challenge, simply put, for both society and a company like Shell, is how to provide “much more energy and much less CO2”. Society needs durable solutions emerging from an informed debate.” Commenting on the book itself, Suman Bery, Chief Economist and lead author, notes, “I have been privileged to work with distinguished local partners to explore the technical and political dilemmas and choices that India faces in a time of global energy system transition. I trust our joint effort will contribute to the already lively national debate on these important and difficult issues.” The book finds that in the short to medium-term, despite a massive renewable energy revolution in India, fossil-based primary energy could increase from 2 to 4 times its current level by 2050. This is because conventional options like gas, hydro and nuclear along with coal will continue playing an important role in supporting new renewables. Moreover, with renewables having little scope in being able to supply industrial heat, natural gas holds prominence as a cleaner alternative to the use of coal and diesel. The book further suggests that between now and 2050, transportation will continue to rely heavily on oil-based fuels in spite of gradual penetration of electric fuels and an increasing use of biofuels. Therefore, even as it gives a boost to renewable energy, India cannot veer away from fossil fuels significantly, at least in the short to medium term. In the short term, to provide energy and not hinder economic growth, coal will be the most critical fuel, particularly if the highest priority is providing electricity to all those that require it. But the use of coal could peak by 2040 if cleaner alternatives progress as expected, so the need for assets to mine, handle and transfer coal may decline after that. For renewables to make a significant contribution, any policy on power generation should go hand in hand with initiatives to electrify end-use technology (electricity currently makes up only a fifth of useful energy consumed). Even at this point, renewables will only diversify the supply mix. That said, when compared against a ‘business as usual’ scenario, India’s projected deployment of energy from renewable sources is significant in terms of scale (potentially supplying up to a quarter of energy demand by 2050), performance of other countries, and the timelines within which current policies aspire to achieve large-scale deployment. Dr Arunabha Ghosh, CEO, and one of the lead authors of the book, said, “Energy security and an integrated approach should lie at the heart of India’s National Energy Policy. India should not be afraid of high import dependence, but it should intelligently evaluate the benefits and trade-offs from investing in domestic production versus imports over the next few decades in planning its fuel and technology transitions. Achieving energy security for India would mean paying attention to four imperatives: assured supply, safe passage, secure storage, and a seat at one or more international forums involved in international energy trade and governance. India’s transition to robust and inclusive energy systems holds the key to solving several key development challenges such as eradicating poverty, raising living standards, building world-class infrastructure, and meeting global climate commitments in a carbon-constrained world.“ Dr Ajay Mathur, Director General, said, “As India’s demand for energy grows, it will find its energy choices being influenced by both macroeconomic conditions and its policies to mitigate climate change. Further, issues of infrastructural, technological and institutional lock-ins of fossil fuels may impact transitions to renewables, apart from the lack of financially viable and scalable energy storage options. Another dimension of India’s energy security challenge is the demand for clean cooking and lighting fuels, particularly in rural India. This study delves into a range of critical cross-cutting issues to provide a coherent and integrated view of the key challenges facing India’s energy sector. The book therefore seeks to inform the national discourse on energy security.” Dr Ritu Mathur, Director at TERI and a lead author, adds: "As India scales up its renewable energy capacity, it must invest into conventional fuels wisely in order to ensure it doesn't advance the existing fossil fuel lock-in, and avoids the risk of infructuous investments into infrastructure and equipment." The book has been published by SAGE Publications India and will be available across bookstores in the coming months. Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani lifts the perseverance and spirit of the event award at Shell Eco-Marathon Asia 2016 Mar 07, 2016 2016 sees eight winning teams from across the region surpass previous year’s mileage achievements When two team members from Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani landed in Manila to participate in the seventh and final edition of Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2016, they discovered that the visa applications for the rest of their team members had been rejected. The team constituted a total of eight members who had worked day and night to put together ‘The Myriad’- a gasoline UrbanConcept vehicle. One member managed to re apply and get a visa to join the team in Manila. Now left with three members, the team needed to work against the clock to complete the whole vehicle. However, this was just the beginning of their problems. The team soon realized that due to an error in documentation, a large part of their consignment was still stuck at the customs without which they would not be able to clear technical inspection. “Two full-days went by in trying to source the consignment from customs. We were still positive that once the consignment reached us, we will be able to put together the vehicle. But the deadline for technical inspection was fast approaching”, Said Rohan Sanghvi, Team Manager, Team BITS. Fighting till the last minute, the team approached Shell, logistics partners, custom authorities and other participating teams from India for help. Support poured in from all quarters including DTU Supermileage from Delhi Technological University who moved some of their own team members to Team BITS to work on their vehicle. Said Vikash Mishra, Country Head, Shell External Relations, “Team BITS showed great resilience and perseverance despite facing multiple setbacks. Despite the lack of support – both financially and morally, they remained positive and chose to move forward amidst all the challenges faced, and were focused on preparing whatever they could for their car. The team demonstrated that the event is not just about winning, but is also a platform for them to pursue their passions. We are very proud of them for upholding the spirit of the event and wish them all the best for future”. Other winners at the event include Team HOW MUCH ETHANOL from Panjavidhya Technological College, Thailand. They clinched first place in the Prototype Alternative Fuel category with a mileage of 2,040km/l at the street circuit – the approximate equivalent distance between Manila and Bangkok. Team Sadewa from Universitas Indonesia more than doubled last year’s winning result and recorded 275km/l in the UrbanConcept Shell FuelSave Gasoline category. Ten Indian student teams, including Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani participated in the seventh and final edition of Shell Eco-marathon Asia at Manila, Philippines last week. The event welcomed close to 30,000 members of the public over the span of four days, who got up close to the student competition and watched live performances at the Fan Zone. Visitors were also treated to a captivating and educational adventure into the future of energy, cities and sustainability at the Energy Zone, and enjoyed an outdoor festival where they were able to participate in activities and grab a bite to eat. To access event images, please visit the following URL: https://www.flickr.com/photos/shell_eco-marathon/. About Shell Eco-marathon Shell Eco-marathon began in 1939 at a Shell research laboratory in the United States as a friendly wager between scientists to see who could get the most miles per gallon from their vehicle. The winner of that contest barely achieved 50 mpg (21 km/l), and from these humble origins, a more organized competition evolved. In 1985 in France, Shell Eco-marathon as we know it today was born. In April 2007, the Shell Eco-marathon Americas event was launched in the United States, and in 2010, the inaugural Shell Eco-marathon Asia was held in Malaysia, up until 2013. Since 2014, the event has been held in Manila, Philippines, which will continue to host the event until 2016. News and Media Releases 2015Media releases published in 2015 by Shell in India Shell Lubricants India launches India’s first ‘Lifetime Engine Warranty’ for Consumers Jun 25, 2015 ‘First of its kind’ offering by a lubricant manufacturer warranting your car’s engine for up to 15 years Shell and NWO to open admissions in India for fourth batch of PhD positions in the Netherlands Jun 06, 2015 Committed to invest about Euro 45 million to fully fund the PhDs of 75 motivated, highly educated computational science experts at some of the best universities in the Netherlands. Five-year programme started in 2012 to fund 75 PhD positions for Indian students Shell Launches Premium Performance Petrol 'Shell V-Power' in India May 07, 2015 Bangalore, May 07, 2015: Shell India today announced the launch of ‘Shell V-Power’, its premium performance petrol, across all its major outlets in India. Inspired by Shell’s technological innovations for Ferrari, Shell V-Power petrol has a unique double action formulation designed to actively clean the engine and protect vital engine parts to help deliver more power. Shell V-Power petrol is currently available at Shell outlets in Bangalore, Mysore, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Baroda, Surat and Pune. Shell champions road safety in India and across Asia May 06, 2015 Getting road safety right is a priority for Shell in India and in the other countries where we operate Just a Load of Hot Air? New Study Reveals 49% of Indians Believe ‘Burping’ Their Cars Will Save Fuel Apr 11, 2015 69% believe warming up the engine saves them fuel 51 per cent don’t know the difference between a mineral and synthetic engine oil/lubricant. Shell India Felicitates Winners Of The Third Edition Of Shell Junior National Science Scholarship Apr 09, 2015 Nearly 15,000 students across 20 Indian cities participated in the examination. Students from Bengaluru, Lucknow & Delhi emerge as National Winners. Survey report compiling perception of 13,000 students on energy and sustainability in India launched. Shell announces the winners of Shell Junior National Science Scholarship 2014-15 Mar 18, 2015 Exam witnessed participation of about 15,000 students from 20 cities in India. Students from Bengaluru, Lucknow & Delhi students emerge as National Winners. Shell expands in India with new global IT centre Mar 04, 2015 Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. today announced the creation of an in-house global information technology centre in Bangalore, India, which is expected to provide employment opportunities for several thousand IT professionals by 2020. Shell’s most advanced motorcycle oil now in India Feb 20, 2015 Introduces the revolutionary Gas-To-Liquid technology for the biking segment at India Bike Week: Offers Shell Advance Ultra with PurePlus Technology made from natural gas. Shell Becomes Hyundai’s Recommended Preferred Aftermarket Oil Supplier For Another Five Years Feb 02, 2015 Branded motor oils manufactured by Shell will continue to be recommended in Hyundai workshops and made available to customers in over 70 countries including India APGDC, GDF SUEZ, Shell and GAIL sign MOUs for the floating LNG terminal in Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Jan 16, 2015 New Delhi, January 16, 2015 –Andhra Pradesh Gas Distribution Corporation (APGDC), GDF SUEZ, Shell and GAIL announced that they have signed two separate Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) for a floating LNG terminal in Kakinada Deep Water Seaport in Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh. Shell Lubricants India launches India’s first ‘Lifetime Engine Warranty’ for Consumers Jun 25, 2015 ‘First of its kind’ offering by a lubricant manufacturer warranting your car’s engine for up to 15 years Mumbai, June 18, 2015: Shell Lubricants, the global leader in finished lubricants, today announced the launch of another industry first - ‘Shell Helix Ultra Lifetime Engine Warranty’. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology, the first motor oil made from natural gas was launched in India last year. On Shell Helix Ultra, this year, Shell is unveiling a first-of-its-kind engine warranty programme to motorists for up to 15 years/100,000kms, which makes for the average lifespan1 of a car. This lifetime engine warranty will be available exclusively for Indian-registered cars using Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology and will cover lubricant-related engine failures. In addition, a limited period warranty of 5 years is also offered to consumers using Shell Helix HX7. Car owners using Shell Helix Ultra or Shell Helix HX7 across India can avail this Engine Warranty program free of cost by registering on the Shell Lubricants’ official Lifetime Engine Warranty website. Speaking at the launch, Nitin Prasad, Managing Director, Shell Lubricants India said, “We are proud to be the first and only lubricant manufacturer in India to launch a Lifetime Engine Warranty for our consumers. Following the launch of Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology, we are so confident of the performance of our motor oil to protect against motor oil-related engine failure that we decided to offer consumers this warranty proposition. This offers you added peace of mind, and lets you drive without worry, at no extra cost. With innovation at the heart of what we do, Shell has invested millions of dollars for over 40 years on research and development to create these next generation motor oils. Our motor oil delivers high levels of cleansing and protection for today’s engines. With this programme, we aim to deliver the highest level of confidence and customer satisfaction and be the most trusted lubricant supplier.” Shell’s latest innovation in lubricant technology - motor oils made from natural gas - was made possible by Shell PurePlus Technology. This is a revolutionary Gas-to-Liquid (GTL) process that converts natural gas into a crystal-clear base oil with virtually none of the impurities found in crude oil. This enables Shell Helix Ultra to provide superior wear2 and corrosion protection3, deliver up to 3% fuel economy4, offer superior resistance to oil degradation5, and reduced oil consumption5 because of better lower volatility properties. No other motor oil keeps your engine closer to factory clean6 “Furthering Shell's formidable track record as a technology leader, we are excited to launch the Shell Helix Ultra Lifetime Engine Warranty in India which would serve as a testimony to the quality of our product. Shell Helix Ultra provides the consumer with optimal protection and performance for their car’s engine. The engine is the heart of the car and ensuring a healthy engine is the mark of a smart driver. All of our motor oils undergo rigorous testing to ensure they meet all major international industry and vehicle manufacturer standards. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology provides superior resistance to oil degradation6 so the motor oil stays stronger for longer in exceptional high temperatures. Shell Helix Ultra also offers superior wear protection to help extend engine life by protecting surfaces from wear beyond latest industry standards7.” said Akhil Jha, Vice President, Technical, Shell Lubricants India “We at Shell Lubricants believe that technology breakthroughs and innovation hold the key to bettering our consumers’ driving experiences. The warranty programme backed by Shell PurePlus technology is another such breakthrough. We will engage in an extensive media/activation outreach over the next few months to optimise awareness amongst our target consumers and different stakeholders. The campaign would aim at sensitising them of the importance of the engine, its maintenance, the role of the right lubricant and our warranty offering. We’re confident that more and more consumers will sign on for this unique offering and avail it to their best benefit,” said Mansi Tripathy, Chief Marketing Officer, Shell Lubricants India. The Warranty starts 30 days or 1000 Km run (whichever is later) after enrolment at www.shell.com/warranty; the enrolment has to take place within 60 days from the purchase date (as documented by transaction receipt) of Shell Helix Ultra/Shell Helix HX7 engine oil and engine oil change. The Lifetime Engine Warranty will cover 13 engine parts. For more details and T&C, please visit www.shell.com/warranty. 1Fifteen years is in line with the registration certificate for a vehicle in India 2Based on Sequence IVA wear test 3Based on sequence VIII engine test 4Depending on the viscosity grades, Based on ACEA M 111 fuel economy results compared with the industry reference oil 5Compared with API SN specification and based on Sequence IIIG oxidation and deposit tests carried out at an independent laboratory 6Compared with API SN specification and based on Sequence IIIG oxidation test 7Compared with API SN specification and based on Sequence IVA engine test carried out at an independent laboratory About Shell Lubricants The term “Shell Lubricants” collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Pennzoil, Quaker State, Shell Rotella, Shell Tellus and Shell Rimula. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants. Blend base oils with additives to make lubricants in over 50 plants, distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We also provide technical and business support to customers. We offer lubricant-related services in addition to our product range. These include: Shell LubeMatch –the market leading product on-line recommendation tool, Shell LubeAdvisor - helps customers to select the right lubricant through highly trained Shell technical staff as well as online tools, and Shell LubeAnalyst - an early warning system that enables customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance and avoid potential lost business through equipment failure. Shell’s world-class technology works to deliver value to our customers. Innovation, product application and technical collaboration are at the heart of Shell lubricants. We have lubricants research centres in China, Germany, Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell), and the USA. We invest significantly in technology and work closely with our customers to develop innovative lubricants. We have a patent portfolio with 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases; more than 200 scientists and lubricants engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. Customer benefits include lower maintenance costs, longer equipment life and reduced energy consumption. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. About Shell Lubricants India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology center, a financial business services center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. It also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and Specialty products. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Ruchi Bhushan ruchi.bhushan@edelman.com, +91 9650077277 Jyoti Rai, Jyoti.rai@edelman.com, +91 9650591553 Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this presentation “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this presentation refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Companies over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to “joint ventures” and companies over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. In this presentation, joint ventures and associates may also be referred to as “equity-accounted investments”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This presentation contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this presentation, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking statements contained in this presentation are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2014 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this presentation and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this presentation, [June 18]. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this presentation that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. You can also obtain these forms from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Shell and NWO to open admissions in India for fourth batch of PhD positions in the Netherlands Jun 06, 2015 Committed to invest about Euro 45 million to fully fund the PhDs of 75 motivated, highly educated computational science experts at some of the best universities in the Netherlands. Five-year programme started in 2012 to fund 75 PhD positions for Indian students June 5, New Delhi: Shell and The Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO) will open admissions for the fourth batch of their PhD scholarship programme in July 2015. The five-year Computational Sciences for Energy Research (CSER) initiative, started in 2012, is supported with a commitment of about Euro 45 million from Shell and the NWO. Fifty-five students have joined the PhD programme, part of the CSER initiative, to date and there are 20 more places to fill in 2015-2016. The ongoing partnership with NWO, the national Research Council, will provide post graduate doctorate scholarships for a total of 75 Indian students at leading institutes in The Netherlands. The aim of this programme is to develop new talent in the computational sciences who can help to deliver innovative technology solutions for the world’s energy challenges. Successful scholarship applicants will have a chance to work with Shell after finishing their programme. They will be offered jobs at Shell’s Technology Centre in Bengaluru— one of Shell’s three global hubs for technology in addition to Houston and Amsterdam. The students will also have the opportunity to pursue an internship at Shell R&D labs in The Netherlands during the course of their PhD studies. Commenting on the programme Mr. Harry Brekelmans, Executive Committee member and Projects & Technology Director, Royal Dutch Shell, said: “Technical and competitive IT is a core part of our technology capability. It enables us to make better decisions and more efficiently manage our assets. Only the brightest and best minds, along with cutting edge hardware, will allow us to handle ever increasing volumes of data to deliver the energy that society relies on.” Shell, one of the largest and most diversified international investors in India's energy sector, is increasing its focus on computational research to deliver technologically innovative solutions to boost exploration and recovery, develop new algorithms to improve smart grids, and to come up with new concepts in battery technologies. Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, added: “Clean and sustainable energy is a major concern for nations across the globe. This initiative was launched to establish a strong relationship between Shell and professional elite of Computational Science to address the world’s energy challenge. Partnering with The Netherlands, we are tapping into India’s talent pool to identify the brightest candidates who can partner with Shell in this journey.” Said Dr Christa Hooijer, Director of the Foundation for Fundamental Research on Matter (FOM), from the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO): “The CSER initiative is making a large contribution to the knowledge base in computational science. It is also further strengthening ties between India and The Netherlands, by establishing strong relationships through education and talent. We hope all PhD students will find this experience valuable and continue their link with NWO and Shell.” This partnership will also create greater public awareness of Dutch universities in India and showcase the various opportunities The Netherlands offers to Indian students as a destination for higher education. NOTES TO EDITORS About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil companies in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business services centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Earlier this year, it signed MOUs for a floating LNG terminal in the country. Shell also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. It recently announced creation of an in-house global IT centre in Bengaluru. Enquiries Students wishing to apply for this programme, please write to p.priyadarshini@shell.com For media queries, please write to Viswakumar Menon at viswakumar.menon@shell.com or Smera Chawla at Smera.Chawla@edelman.com Shell Launches Premium Performance Petrol 'Shell V-Power' in India May 07, 2015 Bangalore, May 07, 2015: Shell India today announced the launch of ‘Shell V-Power’, its premium performance petrol, across all its major outlets in India. Inspired by Shell’s technological innovations for Ferrari, Shell V-Power petrol has a unique double action formulation designed to actively clean the engine and protect vital engine parts to help deliver more power. Shell V-Power petrol is currently available at Shell outlets in Bangalore, Mysore, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Baroda, Surat and Pune. Commenting on the launch, Mr. Ravi Sundararajan, General Manager, Shell Retail India said, “We are delighted to bring Shell V-Power to India, a globally acknowledged and successful fuel which has already marked its presence in 67 countries around the world. The advanced technology of Shell V-Power is designed to enhance the responsiveness of the engine by aiding it in performing to its potential. At Shell we know that all fuels are not the same which is why we are committed to making better fuels for our customers and their cars. Our customers have appreciated the quality of fuels at Shell, and V-Power will replace the existing Shell Super brand of premium petrol.” Ms. Mae Ascan, Senior Fuels Scientist, Shell Projects and Technology said “Shell V-Power goes through rigorous testing both in the lab and at the track, before it ever makes its way to the market. Shell’s technical partnership with Ferrari has given us the environment to test Shell V-Power fuels in extreme conditions; providing us with a better understanding of what will deliver improved power and performance.” Shell has more than a century of experience in fuels innovation and development, with approximately 120 fuels scientists and specialists across the globe working on it. Shell’s technical partnership with Ferrari assists Shell in developing Shell V-Power fuels to meet the highest possible standards. Shell V-Power contains 99% the same types of compounds found in the Shell V-Power race fuel being used by Scuderia Ferrari in the 2013 FIA Formula One World Championship. Shell V-Power fuels are the result of over 60 years of inspiration, innovation and shared passion for performance with Ferrari in the motorsports arena. Shell invests approximately 21,000 hours a year into research and development to give Scuderia Ferrari the competitive edge in Formula One. Shell champions road safety in India and across Asia May 06, 2015 Getting road safety right is a priority for Shell in India and in the other countries where we operate Thousands of Shell staff and contractors across India as well as Asia took part in safety roadshows and hands-on demonstrations at their offices and facilities today to mark Shell's Safety Day. Held annually, the global safety day aims to strengthen the safety culture across the company. This year, several activities across the region centred on road safety in the community, in support of the United Nations Global Road Safety Week which falls on 4-10 May 2015. Getting road safety right is a priority for Shell – and a serious challenge. Besides enforcing Shell's global road safety standards at their workplaces, Shell works with communities and global partners to improve road safety in the countries where it operates. In India, Royal Dutch Shell is one of the largest and most diversified international investors in its energy sector. The Company enforces its road safety standards across all businesses. From delivery of fuel to customer, delivery of equipment to construction projects, or travel to meetings, safe road transport is integral to Shells' business. To address this challenge, Shell India aims at keeping its drivers safe through training programmes, by enforcing global road safety standards. Project Humrahee is one of the many initiatives of Shell which intends to identify quality drivers and provide training to them. The objective is to create a pool of competent drivers. The drivers undergo various levels of defensive driving training and are also given professional accreditation through the programme. Shell was acknowledged in India for its excellent road safety practices deployed in operations. Now with the project HumRahee, statistics have demonstrated that Shell has made exponential progress in the area of road safety, recognising there is always more to do. In line with its objective of promoting awareness on road safety to its stakeholders, Shell partners with schools to impart a 6-weeks training programme to students aged 10 to 14 years. The programme has been conducted in 19 schools in 6 cities covering more than 3000 students. The training workshop is a series of activities including creative artwork, role plays, group discussions, debates, audio-visual sessions and outdoor demonstrations. The objective of the program is not only to help children learn about road safety, but make it a part of their everyday practice. On these initiatives, Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said “It is crucial to put safety first and find practical solutions to reduce the number of preventable accidents. This goes beyond just following rules and procedures, it’s about a culture of personal ownership and intervention across the whole organisation that keeps everybody safe.” Notes to Editors About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business services centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Earlier this year, it signed MOUs for a floating LNG terminal in the country. Shell also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. It recently announced creation of an in-house global IT centre in Bengaluru. INQUIRIES: Shell Companies in India Vikash Mishra, E: vikash.mishra@shell.com M: 077609 75261 Edelman India Smera Chawla, E: Smera.Chawla@edelman.com M: 09654470153 Just a Load of Hot Air? New Study Reveals 49% of Indians Believe ‘Burping’ Their Cars Will Save Fuel Apr 11, 2015 69% believe warming up the engine saves them fuel 51 per cent don’t know the difference between a mineral and synthetic engine oil/lubricant. New Delhi, April 11, 2015: A new study released today uncovers the extraordinary lengths Indians are willing to go to in order to save fuel and cut their driving costs. The Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction Report, which analyses the behaviour of 1,000 Indian drivers aged 18 to 40, reveals that while 83% see being fuel efficient as important, 68% admit they don’t know how. This causes 54% of those who are unsure to feel anxious about fuel efficiency, leading many to believe and practice a collection of peculiar fuel saving myths. The research shows 95% of drivers turn on the air conditioning instead of winding down their windows to avoid wind resistance. Whilst 92% warm up the engine before they drive, more than two thirds (69%) believe this same myth will save them fuel. More shockingly almost half (49%) also believe ‘burping’ their cars to release air pockets in the tank does the same trick. Commenting on the findings, Ravi Sundararajan, General Manager, Shell Retail India says: “The Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction Report shows just how important saving fuel is for Indian motorists, along with the incredible ways they employ to be more fuel efficient. Some of the beliefs revealed through the study were actually wasting fuel rather than helping to conserve it. It becomes pertinent that awareness about wasteful practices is highlighted.” To help sort fact from fiction, Shell is out to turn the nation’s myth-followers into fuel efficiency pros – both through using fuels like Shell that are scientifically designed to last longer and by demonstrating more effective ways to drive smartly. Adding to the findings of the report, Nitin Prasad, Managing Director, Shell Lubricants India said: “When it comes to fuel efficiency, the exciting news is that the importance of maintenance and change of engine oil/lubricants is not lost on Indian drivers. The report shows that drivers are choosing high quality lubricants to improve engine performance and fuel efficiency, but many do not know the difference between a mineral and a synthetic engine oil lubricant and the varying benefits thereof. The Indian customer is receptive to new technology and the report shows that innovation in oil is considerably needed”. “We believe synthetic motor oils can play a crucial role in improving fuel economy. A simple equation arises; cleaner engines mean smoother drive that translates into higher fuel efficiency. With this thought, Shell developed the Shell PurePlus Technology which is even a step further of the synthetic technology that exists in the market today. This is a patented process, developed over 40 years of research, which converts natural gas into crystal-clear base oil. Our car engine oil Shell Helix Ultra and bike engine oil Shell Advance Ultra are formulated with this advanced GTL technology and address the motorists’ fuel efficiency challenges,” he added. Drivers are looking to scientists (81%) and engineers (82%) to help them save fuel and energy in the future, and Shell is calling on the next generation of Indian’s science and engineering talent to lead the way. Students from M.N.M Jain Engineering College, K.J. Somaiya College Of Engineering, Government Engineering College Barton Hill, Sir M Visvesvaraya Institute of Technology, RV College of Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology - Banaras Hindu University, Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS), VIT University, Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University competed in Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2015 and busted some of the prevalent myths through their experiences at the mileage challenge. The Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction Report also reveals that the confusion on the road is in stark contrast to what goes on inside the nation’s homes. Indeed, whilst 86% of people say they frequently turn off the lights to save energy when leaving the house, only 59% would frequently remove excess weight from the boot of the vehicle to help save fuel. To learn more about Shell Eco-marathon and discover top tips on how to make your fuel last longer, visit here Notes to Editors For the full findings of the Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction Report or to arrange an interview, please contact: Attrika Hazarika +91-8527611616 Attrika.hazarika@edelman.com Smera Chawla +91-9654470153 Smera.chawla@edelman.com About the Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction Report The Shell Fuel Economy Fact or Fiction Report was commissioned by Shell and conducted by independent research firm Edelman Berland in December 2014. It used an online questionnaire with a nationally representative sample of 1,000 Indian drivers aged 18 to 40. About Shell Eco-marathon Shell Eco-marathon began in 1939 at a Shell research laboratory in the United States as a friendly wager between scientists to see who could get the most miles per gallon from their vehicle. The winner of that contest barely achieved 50 mpg (21 km/l), and from these humble origins, a more organized competition evolved. In 1985 in France, Shell Eco-marathon as we know it today was born. In April 2007, the Shell Eco-marathon Americas event was launched in the United States, and in 2010, the inaugural Shell Eco-marathon Asia was held in Malaysia. Malaysia hosted Shell Eco-Marathon Asia until 2013. Since 2014, the event is being held in Manila, Philippines, which will continue to host the event until 2016. About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business services centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Earlier this year, it signed MOUs for a floating LNG terminal in the country. Shell also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. It recently announced creation of an in-house global IT centre in Bengaluru. About Shell Lubricants The term “Shell Lubricants” collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Pennzoil, Quaker State, Shell Helix, Shell Rotella, Shell Tellus and Shell Rimula. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants, blend base oils with additives to make lubricants in over 50 plants, distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We also provide technical and business support to customers. We offer lubricant-related services in addition to our product range. These include: Shell LubeMatch –the market leading product on-line recommendation tool, Shell LubeAdvisor - helps customers to select the right lubricant through highly trained Shell technical staff as well as online tools, and Shell LubeAnalyst - an early warning system that enables customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance and avoid potential lost business through equipment failure. Shell’s world-class technology works to deliver value to our customers. Innovation, product application and technical collaboration are at the heart of Shell lubricants. We have leading lubricants research centres in China, Germany, Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell), and the USA. We invest significantly in technology and work closely with our customers to develop innovative lubricants. We have a patent portfolio with 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases; more than 200 scientists and lubricants engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. Customer benefits include lower maintenance costs, longer equipment life and reduced energy consumption. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. View the full infographic here Shell India Felicitates Winners Of The Third Edition Of Shell Junior National Science Scholarship Apr 09, 2015 Nearly 15,000 students across 20 Indian cities participated in the examination. Students from Bengaluru, Lucknow & Delhi emerge as National Winners. Survey report compiling perception of 13,000 students on energy and sustainability in India launched. New Delhi, April 09, 2015: Shell, one of the most diversified international investors in India's energy sector, among all global integrated oil companies, today announced winners of its “Shell Junior National Science Scholarship” programme 2014-2015. Shell Junior National Science Scholars programme recognises young students with exceptional talent. In its third edition, the Shell Junior National Science Scholarship witnessed participation of nearly 15,000 students from Class IXth and Xth across 650 schools, which is more than twice the number of students that participated last year. 20 national and regional winners were felicitated by Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India. The ceremony was also graced by Mr. Narendra Taneja, National Convenor, Energy Cell, BJP and Mr. Chris Dain, First Secretary Trade & Investment North India, British High Commission. In line with its objective of celebrating and inspiring the creative potential of young minds, Shell India, plans to nurture students for future challenges through this platform. This flagship programme, started in 2012, is aimed at engaging the youth of India - leaders, scientists and innovators of the future - on topics of energy, environment and sustainable development. On this occasion, Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, "I am delighted to felicitate the winners of Shell Junior National Science Scholarship 2014 programme. We have achieved a new milestone by reaching out to nearly 15,000 students across India. Shell has always been at the forefront of creating awareness of energy related challenges and driving thought leadership in sustainability. The Shell Junior National Science Scholarship plays a key role in supporting such an effort. Through this programme, we aim to encourage young students to consider a career in science and technology." Commenting on the initiative, Mr. Narendra Taneja, National Convenor, Energy Cell, BJP, said “It is heartwarming to see that the country has such a vast pool of talent. I congratulate all the winners and encourage them to take up science and energy as a career path for India’s sustainable future. I appreciate that a company like Shell has taken this initiative in guiding and nurturing these future scientists and innovators.” At the award ceremony, Dr. Hilton also unveiled a report on ‘Energy Sustainability and Conservation’, which is a compilation of the survey done amongst 13,980 students. The report was prepared to assess students’ perception of energy and sustainability in India on topics related to usage of existing resources, government and policy support towards energy efficiency and attitude of people towards energy efficiency and conservation. The survey was conducted to evaluate the youth’s understanding of pertinent energy issues and also build awareness around criticality of the issues. Yash Dixit (Delhi Public School, Bangalore North, Bengaluru), Sarthak Singh (St Mary Inter College, Lucknow) and Kushagra Juneja (Apeejay School, Pitampura, New Delhi) were announced as national winners of the scholarship. Kushagra Juneja is a second time winner of Shell Junior National Science Scholarship having won the scholarship last year as a class IX student. The online examination took place between January and February and tested students across Physics, Chemistry, Maths, and General Knowledge with a special focus on Energy. The examination constituted objective-type questions with one subjective question to act as a tie-breaker and to determine the students’ aptitude and motivation for science. 17 regional winners, one from each city, will receive a one-time scholarship amount of Rs. 50,000 while three national winners will receive the National Level Award of Rs. 1,25,000. NOTES TO EDITORS About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business services centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Earlier this year, it signed MOUs for a floating LNG terminal in the country. Shell also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. It recently announced creation of an in-house global IT centre in Bengaluru. INQUIRIES: Edelman India Smera Chawla M: 09654470153 E: Smera.Chawla@edelman.com Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. Vikash Mishra M: 077609 75261 E: vikash.mishra@shell.com Shell announces the winners of Shell Junior National Science Scholarship 2014-15 Mar 18, 2015 Exam witnessed participation of about 15,000 students from 20 cities in India. Students from Bengaluru, Lucknow & Delhi students emerge as National Winners. New Delhi, March 16, 2015 –Shell, one of the most diversified international investors in India's energy sector, among all global integrated oil companies, has announced winners of its third “Shell Junior National Science Scholarship” programme 2014-2015. Shell Junior National Science Scholars programme recognises young people with exceptional talent. It aims to inspire students to focus on science and environment. About 15, 000 students of Class IX and X from 650 schools participated in the online examination across 20 cities this year. This number is twice that of the students who participated last year. The students from Delhi Public School, Bengaluru North, St. Mary Inter College, Lucknow and Apeejay School, Pitampura, Delhi emerged as the national winners of the scholarship programme. These national winners are selected from the 20 regional winners. All the winners along with their mentor science teachers will be felicitated at an award ceremony in Delhi scheduled later next month. On the announcement of the results, Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, “I congratulate all the students for participating in this examination and hope it encourages children to pursue higher studies and a career in science and technology. Shell is at the forefront in raising awareness on energy, sustainability and the environment. The Shell Junior National Science Scholarship aims to inspire students to think about these contemporary issues and encourage them to become the innovators of tomorrow.” The online examination took place in January and February. The students were tested in Physics, Chemistry, Maths, and General Knowledge focussing on Energy. The examination followed the pattern of objective type of questions with one subjective question to act as a tie-breaker and to determine the student's aptitude and motivation for science. The 20 regional winners, one from each city, will receive a one-time scholarship amount of Rs. 50,000. Three toppers from the twenty regional winners will additionally receive the National Level Award of Rs. 75,000. NOTES TO EDITORS About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology centre, a financial business services centre and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Earlier this year, it signed MOUs for a floating LNG terminal in the country. Shell also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. It recently announced creation of an in-house global IT centre in Bengaluru. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. Vikash Mishra M: 077609 75261 E: vikash.mishra@shell.com Edelman Smera Chawla M: 09654470153 E: Smera.Chawla@edelman.com Shell expands in India with new global IT centre Mar 04, 2015 Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. today announced the creation of an in-house global information technology centre in Bangalore, India, which is expected to provide employment opportunities for several thousand IT professionals by 2020. Shell will invest in the centre, which will form an integral part of Shell’s global IT project delivery and support network. The investment stems from a review of Shell’s global IT projects and selected operations support capability that places greater emphasis on delivering projects in-house. Shell plans to begin operations at the centre later this year. “I am pleased to announce the creation of the Shell IT centre in Bangalore. This move will deliver benefits to Shell and India for decades to come,” said Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman of Shell Companies in India. “We aim to attract the brightest and the best talent in the industry and provide opportunities for them to build world-class business solutions. This is good news for Shell and for India.” Bangalore was selected because of its competitiveness and the availability of a skilled, diverse IT talent pool covering the broad range of skills and disciplines that Shell needs worldwide. The centre will provide IT services to all of Shell’s businesses – Upstream, Downstream and Projects & Technology – as well as associated support functions. Employment opportunities at the centre will be announced in the near future on the Shell India website, www.shell.in. “This is an important development for Royal Dutch Shell,” said Harry Brekelmans, Shell’s Projects & Technology Director. “Bangalore’s significant IT talent will improve our ability to provide top-quality IT project delivery and selected operations support around the world. We look forward to further building on Shell’s close links with Bangalore.” Shell already has a Projects and Technology Centre in Bangalore (STCB), employing over 1,000 scientists and engineers, which is part of its Projects & Technology business. In 2016, STCB will move to a purpose-built, dedicated campus, spread over 52 acres near Devanahalli, close to Bangalore International Airport. Shell also has a Business Operations Centre based in Chennai, where over 2,000 employees provide business and financial support to Shell companies worldwide. Shell India has a growing lubricants and retail business and is present in integrated gas through its liquefied natural gas (LNG) regasification plant and port in Hazira. Shell recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Andhra Pradesh Gas Development Corporation, GDF Suez and GAIL on a Floating Storage Regasification Unit (FSRU) project in Kakinada in the state of Andhra Pradesh. ENDS Notes to Editors: About Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. Shell is one of the largest and most diversified international investors in India's energy sector. It is the only global energy major to have a fuel retail licence in India. As well as being a major private-sector supplier of crude oil, oil products, chemicals and technology to public and private oil companies, Shell has key interests in lubricants, aviation and marine products and operates an LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. Shell also has a significant technology centre and a financial business services centre in India. ENQUIRIES: Vikash Mishra Head, Corporate Communications, India +91 077609 75261 Jonathan French Head of UK Media Relations +44 (0) 20 7934 5550 Royal Dutch Shell plc Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com. Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this announcement "Shell", "Shell Group" and "Royal Dutch Shell" are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words "we", "us" and "our" are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. "Subsidiaries", "Shell subsidiaries" and "Shell companies" as used in this announcement refer to companies in which Shell either directly or indirectly has control, by having either a majority of the voting rights or the right to exercise a controlling influence. The companies in which Shell has significant influence but not control are referred to as "associated companies" or "associates" and companies in which Shell has joint control are referred to as "jointly controlled entities". In this announcement, associates and jointly controlled entities are also referred to as "equity-accounted investments". The term "Shell interest" is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This announcement contains forward looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell and the Shell Group. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell and the Shell Group to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "anticipate", "believe", "could", "estimate", "expect", "goals", "intend", "may", "objectives", "outlook", "plan", "probably", "project", "risks", "seek", "should", "target", "will" and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and the Shell Group and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements included in this announcement, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell's products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell's 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2013 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These factors also should be considered by the reader. Each forward looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, 4 March 2015. Neither Shell nor any of its subsidiaries nor the Shell Group undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward looking statements contained in this announcement. Shell’s most advanced motorcycle oil now in India Feb 20, 2015 Introduces the revolutionary Gas-To-Liquid technology for the biking segment at India Bike Week: Offers Shell Advance Ultra with PurePlus Technology made from natural gas. Goa, February 20, 2015: Shell Lubricants, the global market share leader in finished lubricants, today announced the launch of its next generation bike oil, Shell Advance Ultra with PurePlus Technology - company’s most advanced motorcycle oil ever, developed from natural gas. The grand unveiling of the product was organised at Asia’s biggest biking festival - India Bike Week being held at Vagator, Goa. Continuing the legacy of producing premium motor oils, Shell Advance Ultra PurePlus Technology is manufactured through a revolutionary Gas-to-Liquid (GTL) process that converts natural gas into a crystal-clear base oil with virtually none of the impurities which are found in crude oil. Speaking at the launch, Nitin Prasad, Managing Director, Shell Lubricants India said: “We are proud to launch Shell Advance Ultra with PurePlus Technology - a revolutionary motorcycle oil which is a great testimony of Shell’s ‘from-track-to-road’ philosophy. We invest more than any other oil company in research and development. Thus, we are able to leverage our technological leadership and innovation in the lab and on the track and transfer them into a product for everyday use on the road. With an ever increasing number of motorcycles on Indian roads, we believe Shell Advance Ultra with PurePlus Technology will improve the riding experiences of the bikers, given the varied climatic and geographical conditions in the country.” “Shell Lubricants is first-to-market with products developed through the revolutionary Gas-to-Liquid (GTL) technology. Shell Advance Ultra with PurePlus Technology possesses unsurpassable viscosity stability, that helps protect bike’s engine even in the toughest conditions. A more efficient engine means better power transmission. Developed over 40 years of research at the Pearl GTL plant in Qatar, this technology enables us to produce a crystal-clear base oil from natural gas that is virtually free of the impurities that are a norm with mineral oil-based lubricants. ’’ said Akhil Jha, Vice President, Technical, Shell Lubricants India. “Furthering Shell's formidable track record as a trusted fuels and lubricants partner, we are delighted to launch our most advanced motorcycle oil today at the India Bike Week. We at Shell Lubricants believe that ingenuity, technology breakthroughs and innovation hold the key to unlocking the energy consumers’ need to power their lives in the years ahead. With the launch of Shell Advance Ultra, we aim to provide bikers across country a clean bike engine with better protection and an optimised, more efficient power transmission that can further contribute to their perfect riding experience.” said Mansi Tripathy, Chief Marketing Officer, Shell Lubricants India. Also present at the launch, Alisha Abdullah, India's first and only female superbike racer, said “I am personally very excited for the launch of Shell Advance Ultra with PurePlus Technology. Since this is made by converting natural gas to liquid, hence, the technology makes it the purest oil ever. This will help every biker to derive the maximum power from their bikes. I can’t wait to use it.” Shell PurePlus Technology is a revolutionary process to design pure, synthetic base oil which delivers higher levels of cleansing and protection. It is produced at the Pearl Plant in Qatar; a partnership between Shell and Qatar Petroleum. It begins with the extraction of natural gas from Qatar's North Field - the world's largest natural gas field. In a gasifier, methane reacts with pure oxygen to produce synthesis gas. The synthesis gas then enters one of 24 reactors at the plant, where chains of hydrocarbons are rearranged and transformed into a liquid base oil virtually free of all the impurities found in crude oil. Shell Advance Ultra with PurePlus Technology will be available throughout the Asia-Pacific region starting this year with a price tag of INR 827 in India. -Ends- About Shell Lubricants The term “Shell Lubricants” collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Pennzoil, Quaker State, Shell Rotella, Shell Tellus and Shell Rimula. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants. Blend base oils with additives to make lubricants in over 50 plants, distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We also provide technical and business support to customers. We offer lubricant-related services in addition to our product range. These include: Shell LubeMatch –the market leading product on-line recommendation tool, Shell LubeAdvisor - helps customers to select the right lubricant through highly trained Shell technical staff as well as online tools, and Shell LubeAnalyst - an early warning system that enables customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance and avoid potential lost business through equipment failure. Shell’s world-class technology works to deliver value to our customers. Innovation, product application and technical collaboration are at the heart of Shell lubricants. We have lubricants research centres in China, Germany, Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell), and the USA. We invest significantly in technology and work closely with our customers to develop innovative lubricants. We have a patent portfolio with 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases; more than 200 scientists and lubricants engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. Customer benefits include lower maintenance costs, longer equipment life and reduced energy consumption. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. About Shell Lubricants India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant technology center, a financial business services center and operates a joint venture LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. It also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and Specialty products. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. for media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Jyoti Rai, jyoti.rai@edelman.com, +91 9650591553 Chetna Sachdeva, chetna.sachdeva@edelman.com, +91 7042668006 Sanya Grover, Sanya.Grover@edelman.com, +91 9899748033 Cautionary note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this presentation “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this presentation refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Companies over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to “joint ventures” and companies over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. In this presentation, joint ventures and associates may also be referred to as “equity-accounted investments”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This presentation contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this presentation, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking statements contained in this presentation are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2012 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this presentation and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this presentation, [February 20th]. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this presentation that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov . You can also obtain these forms from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Shell Becomes Hyundai’s Recommended Preferred Aftermarket Oil Supplier For Another Five Years Feb 02, 2015 Branded motor oils manufactured by Shell will continue to be recommended in Hyundai workshops and made available to customers in over 70 countries including India New Delhi, February 2, 2015: Shell Lubricants and Hyundai Motor Company (HMC) today announced the renewal of their collaboration for Shell to be recommended as the preferred aftermarket motor oil supplier for Hyundai vehicles worldwide for another five years. In India, the recommendation covers a range of Shell Helix products including Shell Helix HX6 AH 5W30, Shell Helix HX5 AH 15W40, Shell Helix HX5 D AH 15W 40 and Shell Helix HX3 AH 15W40. The agreement also includes co-branded motor oils available in markets in Asia such as China, India or Indonesia as well as Brazil in South America, with new markets to be added in Europe soon. Commenting on the association, Nitin Prasad, Managing Director, Shell Lubricants India, said, “Shell Lubricants is proud to collaborate and extend their partnership with Hyundai as their preferred aftermarket oil supplier. This agreement means we will continue to supply and jointly develop high-quality motor oils for Hyundai customers underpinned by Shell’s technology leadership. Through this collaboration, we aspire to create value for Hyundai customers – be it in products, aftermarket services, marketing or technology.” TakukIm, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer at Hyundai Motor Company, said “This agreement with Shell is broad in scope, supporting the needs of our global aftermarket supply chain, as well as giving rise to new technical collaborations and joint marketing initiatives. The common factor in all of these activities is our desire to maximise customer satisfaction in the aftermarket experience. Shell will be a leading partner for us as we implement and enhance our aftermarket strategy over the coming years, helping to drive the qualitative growth of the international Hyundai business.” Shell Lubricants has been associated with Hyundai in India since 2008. With Shell’s nationwide reach, Shell Lubricants has been supplying to Hyundai workshops across the length and breadth of the country. Shell also supports the end customers of Hyundai India through many attractive offers during the various Service Camp initiatives like the Hyundai Free Car Care Clinic. In India, they are also the sole sponsors of the National Skill Olympics which is targeted towards up-skilling the technicians and service advisors at the Hyundai workshops. Shell and Hyundai are also collaborating on the race track. In 2014, Shell and Hyundai Motorsport became technical partners in the FIA World Rally Championships. Shell and Hyundai will also continue to collaborate on technology and innovation – developing new motor oil formulations to meet the needs of Hyundai’s expanding range of vehicles. ABOUT SHELL LUBRICANTS The term “Shell Lubricants” collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Pennzoil, Quaker State, Shell Rotella, Shell Tellus and Shell Rimula. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants. Blend base oils with additives to make lubricants in over 50 plants, distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We also provide technical and business support to customers. We offer lubricant-related services in addition to our product range. These include: Shell LubeMatch –the market leading product on-line recommendation tool, Shell LubeAdvisor - helps customers to select the right lubricant through highly trained Shell technical staff as well as online tools, and Shell LubeAnalyst - an early warning system that enables customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance and avoid potential lost business through equipment failure. Shell’s world-class technology works to deliver value to our customers. Innovation, product application and technical collaboration are at the heart of Shell lubricants. We have lubricants research centres in China, Germany, Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell), and the USA. We invest significantly in technology and work closely with our customers to develop innovative lubricants. We have a patent portfolio with 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases; more than 200 scientists and lubricants engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. Customer benefits include lower maintenance costs, longer equipment life and reduced energy consumption. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. ABOUT SHELL LUBRICANTS INDIA Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant Technology center, a financial business services center and operates an LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. It also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Jyoti Rai jyoti.rai@edelman.com +919650591553 Sanya Grover Sanya.Grover@edelman.com +919899748033 APGDC, GDF SUEZ, Shell and GAIL sign MOUs for the floating LNG terminal in Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Jan 16, 2015 New Delhi, January 16, 2015 –Andhra Pradesh Gas Distribution Corporation (APGDC), GDF SUEZ, Shell and GAIL announced that they have signed two separate Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) for a floating LNG terminal in Kakinada Deep Water Seaport in Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh. The first MOU is between APGDC, GDF SUEZ and Shell and supports the development of the terminal. APGDC (a JV company between the Government of AP and GAIL), GDF SUEZ and Shell will have 48%, 26% and 26% equity in the project respectively. The second MOU is between GAIL, GDF SUEZ and Shell and covers both the sourcing of LNG and the marketing of the regasified LNG from the terminal. GAIL, GDF SUEZ and Shell will have 48%, 26% and 26% equity in the project respectively. The Kakinada LNG terminal will use a state-of-the-art Floating Storage and Regasification Unit (FSRU) with a peak capacity of 5 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) with the provision to double the capacity. The proposed terminal will use high-end technology and will be one of the first of its kind in India. The Kakinada port was found suitable for a project of this nature owing to its availability of a natural break-water in the Hope Island – a barrier that protects against the impact of high seas. Hon’ble Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri N Chandrababu Naidu who was witness to the MOU signing said, “I am fully committed to the project and am sure that these domestic and international partners who have come together under this MOU will bring the best expertise, technology and speediness from all over the world to complete the project within 18 months. About the Kakinada LNG Terminal, he described it as a great opportunity in the development of a project that shall ensure continuous availability of Natural gas. In many countries FSRU based LNG project is the fastest and most cost-effective way to secure energy supply while bolstering the fight against climate change and air pollution. He pointed out that gas is the way to go as it dovetails world’s concerns about climate change. Considering the state and country’s need for energy, Shri Naidu stated that opportunities for scaling up are huge. The Chief Minister also suggested that building such partnerships is important to develop projects with advanced technological capabilities. Speaking on the occasion, the Hon’ble Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Petroleum & Natural Gas, Mr Dharmendra Pradhan said, “This project would be a significant boost to our economic churning and development. Such big infrastructure projects will become the beneficiary of two strong leaders both at the centre and state who are committed to support such large projects”. Speaking on the development, Mr. B C Tripathi, Chairman & Managing Director, GAIL (India) Limited said that “This is first of its kind LNG Terminal in India and would prove to be an important infrastructure for import of LNG on the eastern coast. Natural Gas is emerging as a significant fuel for economic development of the country and this FSRU based LNG Terminal will surely play a far reaching role in making natural gas available to various consumers in industrial, commercial and domestic sectors.” Speaking about the project, Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India, said, “Shell is pleased to contribute to this opportunity with our partners as a LNG terminal in Andhra Pradesh will help meet the energy demand in the region. Natural gas is uniquely positioned to help meet energy and environmental challenges and we are encouraged by the State’s commitment to the project. We are grateful to the Chief Minister for taking this initiative forward.” Mr. Lucas Hautvast, CEO & President of GDF SUEZ Energy South Asia, Middle East & Africa, said, “GDF SUEZ, as one of the key stakeholders and strategic investors in Petronet LNG – the owner of India’s first LNG terminal – has a long history in the country. Soon after its acquisition of a majority stake in the 1,000 MW Meenakshi coal-fired power project near Krishnapatnam port, the participation in the Kakinada LNG project confirms GDF SUEZ’s confidence in the Indian energy growth potential. We are excited to be part of the energy infrastructure development story that is taking shape in Andhra Pradesh and are proud to bring our experience in floating LNG to India for this first East coast terminal. We look forward to working with such prestigious partners as APGDC, GAIL and Shell to bring this project to fruition.” Notes to editors About APGDC APGDC has been established as a Joint Venture Company by GoAP (Government of Andhra Pradesh) and GAIL Gas Ltd., with 50% equity each. The objective of the APGDC is to establish the regional gas pipeline distribution network and to develop city gas distribution in various major cities within the State of Andhra Pradesh and to develop infrastructure for import of Natural Gas in the eastern coast, to make the State of Andhra Pradesh a gas driven economy. APGDC has been authorized by the regulator M/s PNGRB to lay, build, operate and expand cross country natural gas pipeline from Kakinada to Srikakulam having length of 301 Km for the mainline. The pipeline will cover 4 districts of Andhra Pradesh namely East Godavari, Vishakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam. APGDC is also in the process of obtaining authorisation to lay further pipelines within the state of AP and confident of further expansion in their activities. About GAIL (India) Limited GAIL (India) Limited is India’s largest natural gas company having a market share of over 75% in natural gas transmission. Apart from natural gas transmission, distribution and processing, the Company has diversified business interests in LPG transmission, petrochemicals, city gas projects and Exploration and Production activities. The Company has presence in Egypt and China through city gas projects and in Myanmar in E & P. GAIL has recently acquired its first shale gas assets in the USA through its wholly owned US subsidiary GAIL Global (USA) Inc. The subsidiary company has executed definitive agreements with Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. based in Houston, Texas, to enter into an unincorporated joint venture, under which GAIL Global (USA) Inc. will acquire a 20% interest in Carrizo's Eagle Ford Shale acreage position. GAIL has set up a wholly- owned subsidiary company viz. GAIL Global (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. in Singapore. The Company recorded a Turnover of Rs. 57,245 crore (US $ 9.5 billion approx.) and Profit After Tax of Rs. 4,375 crore (US $ 730 million approx.) in the year 2013-14. GAIL owns and operates around 11,000 Km of high pressure cross country natural gas pipeline network and can handle 210 MMSCMD and is in the process of significantly increasing its pipeline network to reach every part of India. Within the next two to three years, GAIL will have a pan-India natural pipeline infrastructure spanning over 14,500 km and can handle volumes over 300 MMSCMD GAIL is the owners’ Operator of the 5 MMTPA LNG Terminal of RGPPL at Dabhol in Western Coast of India and spread a huge network of pipeline network to take natural gas to customers across the country. About Royal Dutch Shell Shell is the leading international oil company (IOC) for integrated gas, which comprises LNG and GTL. We hold the largest equity share of LNG capacity among IOCs. Floating LNG is the latest in a line of Shell achievements in developing new technologies for the oil and gas industry, reinforcing our leadership in technology and innovation that adds value. We have been developing GTL technology since the 1970s, and built the world’s first commercial GTL plant in Bintulu, Malaysia in 1993. Since then, we have continued to build on our expertise. In 2011, we started production at the world’s largest GTL plant, Pearl, in Qatar. Shell is one of the largest and most diversified international investors in India's energy sector. It is the only global major to have a fuel retail license in India. Besides being a major private sector supplier of crude, products, chemicals and technology to public/private sector oil companies, Shell also has key interests in lubricants, bitumen and aviation and marine products while operating an LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal, as well as a significant technology centre and a financial business services centre. About GDF SUEZ GDF SUEZ develops its businesses (power, natural gas, energy services) around a model based on responsible growth to take up today’s major energy and environmental challenges: meeting energy needs, ensuring the security of supply, fighting against climate change and maximizing the use of resources. The Group provides highly efficient and innovative solutions to individuals, cities and businesses by relying on diversified gas-supply sources, flexible and low-emission power generation as well as unique expertise in four key sectors: independent power production, liquefied natural gas, renewable energy and energy efficiency services. In India, GDF SUEZ is present in the electricity and gas value chains, with existing investments in LNG, Power generation, and Infrastructure/Engineering services, and has recently opened its South Asia development office in the National Capital Region of New Delhi. GDF SUEZ employs 147,400 people worldwide and achieved revenues of €81.3 billion in 2013. The Group is listed on the Paris and Brussels stock exchanges and is represented in the main international indices: CAC 40, BEL 20, DJ Euro Stoxx 50, Euronext 100, FTSE Eurotop 100, MSCI Europe and Euronext Vigeo (World 120, Eurozone 120, Europe 120 and France 20). For media enquiries, please contact: GAIL (India) Limited –Vandana Chanana, Executive Director (Corporate Communications) on vchanana@gail.co.in; Jyoti Kumar, Chief Manager (Corporate Communications) jyotik@gail.co.in Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. – Vikash Mishra, Head Communications on vikash.mishra@shell.com GDF SUEZ Energy (South Asia) – Brigitte Dierckx, Head Communications on Brigitte.dierckx@gdfsuez.com APGDC Limited-- Kapil Kumar Jain, Director (Commercial) on kapilkumarjain@gail.co.in News and Media Releases 2014Media releases published in 2014 by Shell in India Shell lubricants India chosen as BMW group’s recommended oil supplier Nov 13, 2014 Shell premium engine and motorcycle oils to be supplied for BMW service-fills in more than 140 countries globally Inviting Applications for Shell Ideas 360 2014-15 Oct 21, 2014 Shell Ideas 360 is a global ideas competition for University Students, which has recently been launched by Shell. Shell introduces revolution in Indian lubricant industry Sep 10, 2014 Introduces Gas-To-Liquid technology: Offers customers Shell Helix Ultra with Pureplus Technology made from natural gas Road Safety is the key – it is up to you and me! Jun 02, 2014 Says a 13-year old student of DPS, Gurgaon who was one of the attendees of the Road Safety Awareness Session held by Shell India in their school Indian University enters top 5 of the prestigious Global Shell Ideas360 May 12, 2014 Winner will be announced at Shell Eco-marathon Europe in Rotterdam on 15 May 2014. Shell marks United Nations World Water Day Mar 27, 2014 New Delhi, March 21, 2014 – As the world commemorates UN World Water Day this year and its theme of the “water-energy nexus”, Shell is helping to raise awareness of the linkages between the world’s water and energy systems and the need for integrated solutions. This includes public dialogue events throughout the year, profile on Shell.com and in social media, and an upcoming web chat on the role of gas in Asia to take a closer look at future energy challenges impacting the region. Shell brings lubricants technology lecture on innovations in the face of the energy challenge to IIT Madras Mar 03, 2014 A panel of industry experts discussed the role of co-engineering and innovation in the development of fuel efficient lubricants Shell surveys show Asia concerned about future energy needs Mar 03, 2014 Shell surveys show Asia concerned about future energy needs amid constraints; gas among most-preferred source. Addressing energy-water-food challenges, Shell gathers Asia’s leading minds in a Powering Progress Together dialogue. Shell India announces the winners of ‘Shell Junior National Science Scholarship’ 2013 Jan 17, 2014 3 national and 18 regional winners along with their mentor teachers felicitated at an awards ceremony in New Delhi. Shell lubricants India chosen as BMW group’s recommended oil supplier Nov 13, 2014 Shell premium engine and motorcycle oils to be supplied for BMW service-fills in more than 140 countries globally New Delhi, November 4, 2014: Shell Lubricants, the global market share leader in finished lubricants, today announced its collaboration with BMW as the recommended supplier for service fills in more than 140 countries including India starting January 2015. Shell Lubricants will be the recommended manufacturer and supplier for aftermarket engine oils for BMW brands including BMW, BMW i, BMW M, MINI and BMW Motorrad. The premium engine oils manufactured by Shell Lubricants will be available to customers at BMW Group’s network of more than 3,500 dealers, in more than 140 countries, including India, China, Germany, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, the UK and the USA. The collaboration means that Shell Lubricants will produce and supply BMW’s branded engine oils. These products will meet the latest BMW engine specifications and are underpinned by Shell’s PurePlus Technology. Shell PurePlus Technology is a breakthrough in how engine oils are formulated. It is a patented gas-to-liquid (GTL) process, developed over 40 years of research, which converts natural gas into a crystal-clear base oil. Base oil, usually made from crude oil, is the main component of finished oils and plays a vital role in the quality of the finished engine oil. The base oil is produced at the Pearl GTL plant in Qatar, a partnership between Shell and Qatar Petroleum. From 2015, BMW service customers can benefit from the integration of Shell’s global lubricants supply chain with its gas value chain in Qatar. In India, Hyundai is Shell Lubricants’ customer for service fill. Our customers for both service fill and factory fill include Ford, Maruti Suzuki India Limited, General Motors and Nissan. Other Shell Lubricants customers for service fill include Hyundai on a global level, the Chrysler group in North America covering the provision of Mopar, Pennzoil, and Rotella products to the Chrysler dealership network, Kia Motors Europe and parts of the VW group, most especially in Germany and China. Shell Lubricants’ existing customers for factory fill include Renault, Nissan, Ferrari, Daimler, Maserati, Kia Motors Europe and the Chrysler group in North America. ENDS Notes to Editors Aftermarket or service-fill oils refers to any oils put in any vehicles such as a car or motorcycle, during the after-sales service for the general upkeep of a vehicle in its lifetime. Genuine (parts) Oils are OEM owned branded oils such as Original BMW, Motorrad and MINI Engine Oils. They are specially formulated to meet specific needs of a given OEMs different vehicle components. The motor oil industry is moving towards increased use of synthetic oils over mineral oils because of the improved performance benefits offered in line with stringent emission regulations and fuel efficiency demands. Synthetic oils are manufactured from crude oil or gas using advanced chemical processes. This is in contrast to mineral base oils, which are complex mixtures of naturally occurring hydrocarbons found in crude oil. Base oil produced using Shell PurePlus Technology is a high-quality API Group III synthetic base oil. This innovative component provides a superior molecular structure which can help to: extend engine life, reduce maintenance costs, reduce oil consumption, maintain fuel economy and enable better cleanliness. Shell Lubricants world-class engine oil technology has enabled the development of oils that improve performance, help to improve fuel economy and extend engine life. Oils with lower viscosity can help lower fuel consumption, but they must also provide the right levels of engine protection and durability. Premium engine oils, containing Shell PurePlus Technology and proprietary advanced additive technology, are specifically designed to allow drivers to get the most from their modern engines. Shell Lubricants provides global accessibility to its leading products with a strong global lubricants supply chain network of 9 base oil manufacturing plants, 50 lubricant blending plants and 18 specialist grease plants. To provide Shell PurePlus Technology enabled motor oils around the world, Shell integrated its supply chain with its gas value chain in Pearl GTL, Qatar. This world-scale facility is the largest source of GTL products and the only commercial source of GTL base oil today. After three years of intense testing, the Scuderia Ferrari F1 teams’ new Ferrari V6 engine is racing on a bespoke Shell Helix Ultra motor oil containing Shell PurePlus Technology. It cleans and lubricates the engine, which helps to minimise frictional losses and ensures that the maximum amount of fuel energy reaches the wheels throughout the race. It also helps to deliver improved fuel economy – which has become even more important with the limitation on fuel (100kg per race) enforced by the 2014 technical regulations. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology is also the only motor oil recommended by Ferrari for all of its road cars. ABOUT SHELL LUBRICANTS The term “Shell Lubricants” collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Pennzoil, Quaker State, Shell Rotella, Shell Tellus and Shell Rimula. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants. blend base oils with additives to make lubricants in over 50 plants, distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We also provide technical and business support to customers. We offer lubricant-related services in addition to our product range. These include: Shell LubeMatch –the market leading product on-line recommendation tool, Shell LubeAdvisor - helps customers to select the right lubricant through highly trained Shell technical staff as well as online tools, and Shell LubeAnalyst - an early warning system that enables customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance and avoid potential lost business through equipment failure. Shell’s world-class technology works to deliver value to our customers. Innovation, product application and technical collaboration are at the heart of Shell lubricants. We have lubricants research centres in China, Germany, Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell), and the USA. We invest significantly in technology and work closely with our customers to develop innovative lubricants. We have a patent portfolio with 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases; more than 200 scientists and lubricants engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. Customer benefits include lower maintenance costs, longer equipment life and reduced energy consumption. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. ABOUT SHELL LUBRICANTS INDIA Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with nearly US$1 billion invested. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant Technology center, a financial business services center and operates an LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. It also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Jyoti Rai, Jyoti.Rai@edelman.com, +91-9650591553 CAUTIONARY NOTE The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this release refer to companies in which Royal Dutch Shell either directly or indirectly has control, by having either a majority of the voting rights or the right to exercise a controlling influence. The companies in which Shell has significant influence but not control are referred to as “associated companies” or “associates” and companies in which Shell has joint control are referred to as “jointly controlled entities”. In this release, associates and jointly controlled entities are also referred to as “equity-accounted investments”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect (for example, through our 23% shareholding in Woodside Petroleum Ltd.) ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This release contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘will’’, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘risks’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘should’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including potential litigation and regulatory measures as a result of climate changes; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking statements contained in this release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended 31 December, 2013 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov) These factors also should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this release, 10 February 2014. Neither Royal Dutch Shell nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this release. There can be no assurance that dividend payments will match or exceed those set out in this release in the future, or that they will be made at all. We use certain terms in this release, such as resources, that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. You can also obtain these forms from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330 Inviting Applications for Shell Ideas 360 2014-15 Oct 21, 2014 Shell Ideas 360 is a global ideas competition for University Students, which has recently been launched by Shell. Shell Ideas360 is a global ideas competition targeted at University Students to collaborate and develop innovative ideas that tackle the pressures on the world’s Food, Water and Energy resources has been launched earlier this year by Shell globally The finalists get to pitch their innovative idea to a team of Shell experts in the Netherlands and the winners get a National Geographic Adventure and an opportunity to develop and bring their idea to life, in partnership with Shell. In the last season we received entries from 140 countries with over 150000 website visits, 9000 registered students, 668 Ideas from 44 countries, and 5 finalists. There was a lot of interest about this competition generated amongst Indian students resulting in one finalist team from India. The Indian team from the University of Petroleum and Energy studies made it to the final round and pitched their idea around extraction and replenishment of gas hydrates stored in ice – leading to a potentially everlasting source of alternate energy. The winning team was ‘Team Glas’ from Canada and the winning idea was about collecting water from thin air via giant sails. We are excited about the competition panning out this year in India and looking forward to the innovative ideas, some of which have already started coming in. Find out more about the competition and register yourself as an individual or as part of a team of up to three people. Shell Ideas 360 Shell introduces revolution in Indian lubricant industry Sep 10, 2014 Introduces Gas-To-Liquid technology: Offers customers Shell Helix Ultra with Pureplus Technology made from natural gas Mumbai, September 10, 2014: Shell Lubricants, the global market share leader in finished lubricants, today announced the launch of a next generation motor oil in India, Shell Helix Ultra with Shell PurePlus Technology - the company’s most advanced motor oil ever, featuring a base oil designed from natural gas. Pioneering an entirely new way to produce premium motor oils, Shell Helix Ultra PurePlus Technology is manufactured through a revolutionary Gas-to-Liquid (GTL) process that converts natural gas into a crystal-clear base oil with virtually none of the impurities which are found in crude oil. The result is Shell’s most advanced synthetic motor oil to date. Speaking at the launch, Shell PurePlus Technology is a revolutionary process to design pure, synthetic base oil which delivers higher levels of cleansing and protection. It is produced at the Pearl Plant in Qatar; a partnership between Shell and Qatar Petroleum. It begins with the extraction of natural gas from Qatar's North Field - the world's largest natural gas field. In a gasifier, methane reacts with pure oxygen to produce synthesis gas. The synthesis gas then enters one of 24 reactors at the plant, where chains of hydrocarbons are rearranged and transformed into a liquid base oil virtually free of all the impurities found in crude oil. Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology represents a major shift for the Shell Helix brand, placing a new strategic focus on gas-to-liquids technology for its top-tier motor oils, as opposed to traditional crude oil refining. The new Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology range is currently being rolled out to markets worldwide. For more information on Shell Helix Ultra with PurePlus Technology, please visit: http://pureplus.shell.com/en/ ABOUT SHELL LUBRICANTS The term “Shell Lubricants” collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Pennzoil, Quaker State, Shell Rotella, Shell Tellus and Shell Rimula. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants.blend base oils with additives to make lubricants in over 50 plants, distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We also provide technical and business support to customers. We offer lubricant-related services in addition to our product range. These include: Shell LubeMatch –the market leading product on-line recommendation tool, Shell LubeAdvisor - helps customers to select the right lubricant through highly trained Shell technical staff as well as online tools, and Shell LubeAnalyst - an early warning system that enables customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance and avoid potential lost business through equipment failure. Shell’s world-class technology works to deliver value to our customers. Innovation, product application and technical collaboration are at the heart of Shell lubricants. We have lubricants research centres in China, Germany, Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell), and the USA. We invest significantly in technology and work closely with our customers to develop innovative lubricants. We have a patent portfolio with 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases; more than 200 scientists and lubricants engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. Customer benefits include lower maintenance costs, longer equipment life and reduced energy consumption. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. ABOUT SHELL LUBRICANTS INDIA Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with nearly US$1 billion invested. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant Technology center, a financial business services center and operates an LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. It also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Ayesha Mouza, ayesha.mouza@edelman.com, +91 9953336813 Chetna Sachdeva, chetna.sachdeva@edelman.com, +91 9958782727 The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this presentation “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this presentation refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Companies over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to “joint ventures” and companies over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. In this presentation, joint ventures and associates may also be referred to as “equity-accounted investments”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This presentation contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this presentation, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking statements contained in this presentation are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2012 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this presentation and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this presentation, [September 10th]. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this presentation that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. You can also obtain these forms from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Road Safety is the key – it is up to you and me! Jun 02, 2014 Says a 13-year old student of DPS, Gurgaon who was one of the attendees of the Road Safety Awareness Session held by Shell India in their school Shreya and Abhay were one of the 3000 students of Delhi Public School, Gurgaon who attended Road Safety Awareness session held by Shell India in November 2013. Apart from the awareness sessions for students, Defensive Driving Awareness Session was provided to about 80 school bus drivers. A lot of great effort is made by Shell on the topic of road safety. But, it is also important to measure the impact and hence, six months after the sessions, the team from Shell went back to the school to evaluate if the sessions made any impact to the students, teachers and the bus drivers and this is what they had to say : Ms Shalini Arora, Senior Mistress, Middle School said – “We were very pleased with Shell India’s objective of inculcating a culture of road safety in future generations by ingraining the rights and responsibilities of each road user, and valuing the rights of others on the road in today’s youth." We also met Ravinder Singh, one of the school bus drivers. He said, “I found the session by Shell India very useful. Among other things, I learnt - how I can maintain my school bus, how I can help children safely board and de-board the bus, how to handle an emergency/accident and the importance of the presence of First-aid kit in the school bus. I thank Shell India for providing us with a tool kit, which I found very useful. The two-day road safety awareness program was launched in Delhi Public School which consisted of one and a half hour awareness session for all sections of classes V to X. The session consisted of presentation conducted by Hubert Ebner and an interactive discussion, followed by quiz. The topics ranged from traffic rules to road ettiquette to our own responsibilities in terms of road safety. To complete the learning, the students were requested to write down their pledge on paper and have it signed by their parents. This ensured the learning was permanent and demonstrated commitment Here are some of the notes written by students about the workshop : Indian University enters top 5 of the prestigious Global Shell Ideas360 May 12, 2014 Winner will be announced at Shell Eco-marathon Europe in Rotterdam on 15 May 2014. National, May 12, 2014: Shell, one of the largest and the most diversified international investors in India's energy sector among all global integrated oil companies announced the five finalists that will be competing in the final stage of the global student competition Shell Ideas360. The competition – which encourages university students to conceive, share and collaboratively develop innovative ideas to help tackle Energy, Water and Food challenges around the world – kicked off in September 2013, generating 668 submissions by students around the globe, of which 97 ideas made it to the second stage. Krishna Chaturvedi and his team member Priya Sihag from the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES), Dehradun has made the country proud with their innovative idea Fire in Ice: Fuel for the Future. The other finalists are from Canada, Singapore, the Netherlands and Australia. The Fire in Ice: Fuel for the Future project implemented under the mentorship of Andrew Tan presents an innovative, promising and sustainable source of energy for the future via the injection of carbon-dioxide in hydrate reservoirs to produce methane gas. The microbial action on Carbon dioxide in reservoir to convert it to methane via methanogenesis (procedure of microbial action) and reformation of a methane gas hydrate, forming a complete cycle and providing an ever-lasting source of energy was the concept of the idea. Speaking on the occasion, Viswakumar Menon, Country Head, Corporate Communications, Shell India said, “We would like to extend our heartiest congratulations to students from UPES for making their country and the University proud. We wish them all the luck for the finals and to emerge as winners of Shell Ideas360. We at Shell are committed to a better world and a better future. As major players in the oil and gas industry globally, we’ve always been at the forefront of driving sustainability through innovation and best practices”. The India team along with other finalists will pitch their idea to a panel of judges in Amsterdam on May 14, 2014. On May 15, the winner will be announced at the Powering Progress Together forum that will be held at Shell Eco-marathon 2014 in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. The winning team will embark on a once-in-a-lifetime National Geographic Expedition. Enquiries: Vikash Mishra Country Head, Corporate Communications Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. +91 077609 75261 vikash.mishra@shell.com Notes to Editors About Shell Ideas360 Shell Ideas360 is a new, global competition, encouraging university students to conceive, share and collaboratively develop game-changing ideas to help tackle Energy, Water and Food challenges. Shell Ideas360 provides university students with an exciting opportunity to develop their ideas into a ‘potentially investment-worthy’ business case with the support of mentors and subject matter experts. University students will be able to demonstrate their potential, develop their skills and collaborate globally with like-minded innovators, gaining insights into the current and future challenges in the fields of Energy, Water and Food and how they are related. How the competition works Shell Ideas360 involves three key stages. In stage 1, participants share and submit their initial idea. The ideas will be evaluated by a team of experts and up to 100 ideas will be selected to go to stage 2. Participants will then further develop their ideas with the help of Shell Mentors and Subject Matter Experts. In stage 3 five teams or individuals will be invited to Shell Eco-Marathon Europe in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, to pitch their ideas to a Panel of Judges. Here the finalists will meet thought leaders, other innovators and representatives from business, NGOs and government from around Europe with whom they can exchange ideas and set-up new partnerships. About Royal Dutch Shell Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with nearly US$1 billion invested. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant Technology center, a financial business services center and operates an LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. It also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. Shell marks United Nations World Water Day Mar 27, 2014 New Delhi, March 21, 2014 – As the world commemorates UN World Water Day this year and its theme of the “water-energy nexus”, Shell is helping to raise awareness of the linkages between the world’s water and energy systems and the need for integrated solutions. This includes public dialogue events throughout the year, profile on Shell.com and in social media, and an upcoming web chat on the role of gas in Asia to take a closer look at future energy challenges impacting the region. For the past few years, Shell has been active in finding ways to address the water-energy nexus in its operations, scenarios* work, and by hosting public dialogue events. This is because the world’s water and energy systems are tightly linked. Most forms of energy production need water, and energy is needed to transport and treat water. The world’s growing population and increased prosperity will put pressure on global demand for energy, as well as on food and water supplies in the coming decades. This relationship between energy, water and food is appearing on the agendas of governments, NGOs and businesses, including Shell. “Shell recognises the growing resource stresses between energy, water and food, particularly in cities where as much as 75% of the world’s population is expected to live by 2050,” said Jeremy Bentham, Shell’s Vice President for Global Business Environment. “To understand and respond to these challenges, Shell has been bringing experts together from government, non-governmental organisations and other businesses to explore new forms of partnership and collaboration.” Last month, Shell hosted its signature Powering Progress Together forum in Manila, Philippines to discuss future challenges around water, energy and food stresses, and promote the need for building resilience in companies and in society at large. Philippines was the first country in Asia to host the global platform, welcoming around 350 thought leaders from business, government and civil society. Powering Progress Together events will also be held in Europe, South America and the Middle East during 2014. In its operations, Shell is working to better manage its water use globally. For example, at major facilities in water-scarce areas, Shell is developing water management plans that include how our operations will minimise water use and even increase water supplies by recycling. Off the coast of Singapore, for instance, Shell’s largest wholly-owned refinery at Bukom island distils seawater to make over 10,000 cubic metres of water every day to produce steam used in refining, conserving fresh water resources for households usage. Shell facilities use innovative approaches and advanced technologies to manage water, developed with help from a global centre of expertise for water at the Shell Technology Centre in Bangalore, India. A major CSR initiative of the Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. is the Clean Drinking Water Project close to the Shell Bangalore Laboratories. Three 2000 litre per hour drinking water plants were launched at nearby schools which provide drinking water to ~1300 school children and teachers, and additionally, to the 50,000-strong local community. This CSR initiative has been a three-way partnership. Hardware for the water treatment plants were financially funded by Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. Land along with supply of utilities (water and power) by the Local Village Panchayat, and Build, Run and Maintain responsibilities resting with the NGO, to be eventually transferred to the Local Panchayat in mutual agreement. The New Technology Centre being constructed in Bangalore, India, has a dedicated area for rain water harvesting. As a part of the community program, Hazira LNG & Port Companies have supported Rain Water Conservation which focuses on pond revival, recharging groundwater and developing agriculture-linked activities. The Water Leak Management Project has also been taken up as an environmental objective for the current year to minimize water losses. In Huizhou, China's Guangdong province, an atypical process used at a Shell-CNOOC petrochemicals joint venture complex, saves at least 5.5 million tonnes of water every year, enough to fill up a small-sized reservoir. Customised water recycling systems to reduce the amount of water we use from local sources are one example of the innovative approaches Shell is developing and implementing at several of its operations around the world, including the Netherlands, Canada and South Africa. Beyond its operations, Shell works closely with local water authorities to develop solutions that benefit both Shell and local communities. In a remote Punjab town, eight hours away from the border metropolis of Lahore, Pakistan, a recent survey of ground and municipal water supplies showed high levels of bacteria content were rendering fresh water supplies not potable for the local community. In response, Shell installed a water filtration plant to purify ground water to benefit over 5,000 community members. Realising that water-energy nexus issues are intrinsically linked with energy challenges, and to continue extending our focus on both, Shell is organising a web chat led by Roger Bounds, the Vice President of Shell’s global LNG business and a team of Shell experts on the role of natural gas in Asia on April 17, 2014. To register for this web chat and other Shell dialogues on the future of energy. Enquiries Vikash Mishra Country Head, Corporate Communications Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. +91 077609 75261 vikash.mishra@shell.com About Royal Dutch Shell Royal Dutch Shell plc is incorporated in England and Wales, has its headquarters in The Hague and is listed on the London, Amsterdam, and New York stock exchanges. Shell companies have operations in more than 70 countries and territories with businesses including oil and gas exploration and production; production and marketing of liquefied natural gas and gas to liquids; manufacturing, marketing and shipping of oil products and chemicals and renewable energy projects. For further information, visit www.shell.com About Shell India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with nearly US$1 billion invested. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant Technology center, a financial business services center and operates an LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. It also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. *About Shell Scenarios: Shell Scenarios ask “what if?” questions to explore alternative views of the future and create plausible stories around them. They consider long-term trends in economics, energy supply and demand, geopolitical shifts and social change, as well as the motivating factors that drive change. In doing so, they help build visions of the future. Shell’s latest New Lens Scenarios were published in 2013. For more information: www.shell.com/scenarios Shell brings lubricants technology lecture on innovations in the face of the energy challenge to IIT Madras Mar 03, 2014 A panel of industry experts discussed the role of co-engineering and innovation in the development of fuel efficient lubricants Following the success of the first two editions of Shell’s Global Lecture Series at Imperial College, London, and Tsinghua University, Beijing, Shell brought together automotive industry experts at the third edition of the Shell Lubricants Technology Lecture today in India at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras, Chennai. Here speakers emphasised cross-industry co-engineering as the fastest route to optimising fuel efficiency in lubricants for vehicles. The event was attended by leading automotive and engineering experts in India as well as IIT Madras faculty and students. Dr. Selda Gunsel, Vice President of Shell Global Commercial Technology and one of the speakers at the event said, “At Shell, we believe lubricants - alongside new fuel and engine technologies - have a unique and vital role to play in meeting the global energy challenge. Our research shows that fuel economy can be improved by using the most suitable quality lubricant for an engine, and that even higher savings can be achieved when the lubricants provider and the automotive original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, work together to develop bespoke products for a particular vehicle. This involves long-term co-engineering projects within the industry.” Co-engineering was further reinforced by Professor Gordon Murray, renowned Formula One and McLaren designer as well as the Chief Executive Officer and Technical Director for Gordon Murray Designs (GMD): “At GMD we are developing innovative cars that challenge every aspect of car design concepts, including lubrication. A lubricant is a vital engine component that has more potential than most for improving a vehicle’s fuel economy and cutting its CO2 emissions. That is why we have been working closely with Shell as technical partners since 2010. We share the same drive for fuel efficiency and innovation in an energy challenged world.” Nitin Prasad, Country Head, Shell Lubricants India, inaugurated the event. He said, “The Shell Lubricants Technology Lecture is a great platform to collaborate across media, academia and industry on how lubricants can be used as a valuable design parameter in the automotive industry as opposed to an afterthought. I am very glad to see such an impressive turn out and hope we can continue to share knowledge delivering greater fuel efficiency and lower emissions in the Indian automotive industry.” Professor Krishnan Balasubramanian, Dean of Industrial Consultancy & Sponsored Research at IIT Madras said, “We are proud to host the Shell Lubricants Technology Lecture at IIT Madras for industry experts who are at the forefront of automotive technology in India. Education and practical experience go hand-in-hand and this type of technical knowledge sharing is vital for the development of India’s future engineers.” Other distinguished speakers at the Shell Lubricants Technology Lecture included Dr. Tim Leverton, Head of Advanced & Product Engineering at Tata Motors; Rick Finn, Corporate Strategy Team, Infineum. Notes to editors Global lecture series The recurring theme for the Global Lecture Series is the energy challenge and co-engineering in lubrication to improve fuel efficiency. The inaugural lecture of the Shell Lubricants Global Lecture Series was given by Dr. Selda Gunsel and Professor Gordon Murray at Imperial College, London in November 2012. The lecture at Tsinghua University, Beijing was held in October 2013. This was after the research and development partnership announced by Shell in 2011 with the State Key Laboratory of Tribology in Tsinghua University. The partnership focuses on work to deepen the understanding of lubrication on textured surfaces. Gordon Murray Design and Shell Technical Partnership In 2011, collaboration between research teams at Shell and GMD led to the development of an innovative concept engine lubricant achieving a 6.5 per cent improvement in fuel efficiency for the GMD T.25 design. This was a significant step change compared to the improvements of around 2.5 per cent achieved in typical fuel economy lubricant development programmes in EU urban cycle compared with 5W-30. The T.25 represents a major breakthrough. It is a city car designed to have world-leading efficiency and ultra-low emissions. The car is also optimised for performance, cost, safety, usability, recyclability and ease of assembly, which gives it many key advantages. About Shell Lubricants The term ‘Shell Lubricants’ collectively refers to Shell Group companies engaged in the lubricants business. Shell sells a wide variety of lubricants to meet customer needs across a range of applications. These include consumer motoring, heavy-duty transport, mining, power generation and general engineering. Shell’s portfolio of lubricant brands includes Shell Helix, Shell Rimula, and Shell Spirax. We are active across the full lubricant supply chain. We manufacture base oils in eight plants, we blend base oils with additives to make finished lubricants in almost 70 plants, and we distribute, market and sell lubricants in over 100 countries. We have more experts talking to more customers than any other lubricants supplier. We have over 350 technical support specialists and 1,000 sales professionals working with customers every day. We offer a wide range of services in addition to our products, including Shell LubeMatch, a market leading online tool that matches lubricants to vehicles and equipments, and Shell LubeAnalyst, an early warning system that enables our business customers to monitor the condition of their equipment and lubricant, helping to save money on maintenance. Shell’s world-class technology is applied in our products and technological collaborations. We have four leading lubricants research centres in Germany, the USA, and Japan (in a joint venture with Showa Shell) with more than 200 scientists and engineers dedicated to lubricants research and development. We have 150 + patent series for lubricants, base oils and greases. One of the ways we push the boundaries of lubricant technology is by working closely with top motor racing teams such as Scuderia Ferrari and Penske Racing. These technical partnerships enable us to expand our knowledge of lubrication science and transfer cutting-edge technology from the racetrack to our commercial products. About Shell Lubricants India Shell is one of the most diversified international oil company in India's energy sector with nearly US$1 billion invested. It is a major private sector supplier of crude products and chemicals to India. With over 3000 staff in the country, Shell has a significant Technology center, a financial business services center and operates an LNG receiving and re-gasification terminal. It also has a downstream business marketing fuels, lubricants and specialty products. Shell Lubricants’ India operation is part of Shell’s long-term commitment to India and its support for the country's increasing energy needs. Shell Lubricants’ customers in India include Wartsila, Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Ford and Thermax. For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India – Rakhi Aurora, rakhi.aurora@edelman.com, +919899138902 Shell India - Gurmeet Kaur, gurmeet.kaur@shell.com, +911244771519 Shell Lubricants Global - Mallika Desai, mallika.desai@shell.com, +6597292377 Dr. Selda Gunsel Projects Today Nitin Prasad 1 on 1 Projects Info OEM Update Autocar Professiona B2B Purchase Construction Business Shell surveys show Asia concerned about future energy needs Mar 03, 2014 Shell surveys show Asia concerned about future energy needs amid constraints; gas among most-preferred source. Addressing energy-water-food challenges, Shell gathers Asia’s leading minds in a Powering Progress Together dialogue. Thailand, the Philippines and India top a list of nine Asian countries that say they are very concerned about future energy needs, amid increasing pressure for more energy, water and food to keep up with increased population growth. The results emerged from a series of Shell-commissioned Future Energy surveys in which 80 percent of the respondents ranked longer-term future energy needs alongside everyday concerns like public education and cost of living as important. The surveys covered 8,446 people in 31 cities and 9 regional areas. These concerns have arisen amid growing energy pressures globally. By 2030, the world will need 40% to 50% more energy, water and food in tandem with rising demand and increased populations. Tremendous stress will be placed on these vital resources as energy is used to move and treat water; water is required to produce energy and both energy and water are required in the production of food. “It is encouraging to know that Asians view future energy needs as high priority, as this region will see one of the fastest growths in population and energy demand,” said Jeremy Bentham, Shell’s Vice President for Global Business Environment. “More than ever before, the industry, government and public all have a joint responsibility to create a better energy future, and must come together to collaborate and coordinate our efforts to meet these challenges for generations to come.” Most survey respondents expect energy shortages and higher energy prices to have a significant impact on their countries. Issues seen as most pertinent are energy shortages in Thailand (91%) and South Korea (70%), higher energy prices in India (91%) and Singapore (79%), water shortages in Vietnam (89%) and food shortages in Indonesia (86%). The surveys indicate that Asia is in favour of a mix of future energy sources, with solar energy and natural gas leading the way in many countries. Solar energy is the most desired future energy source across most countries, which include Singapore (86%), Thailand (83%) and India (77%). Natural gas is cited as the most preferred future energy source in Brunei (87%) and is second most preferred in Singapore (52%), Indonesia (43%) and India (43%). Survey respondents agree that collaboration between industry, government, and the public, as well as innovation and incentives for cleaner energy, are the most important factors in shaping future energy needs. The role of government is considered particularly important in most countries while the public is cited as most important for Thailand. Asia’s future energy challenges and the survey findings will be discussed in depth on Thursday, 6 February 2014 at the Shell Powering Progress Together forum, a gathering of thought leaders from business, government, academia and civil society. Some 300 participants will join the event to address the world’s growing water, food and energy challenges. It is held in conjunction with Shell Eco-marathon Asia 2014 in Manila, Philippines. Key panelists include Hon. Carlos Jericho Petilla, Secretary, Philippine Department of Energy, Manila, Vinod Thomas, Director General of Independent Evaluation from the Asian Development Bank, Jose Ma. Lorenzo Tan, President and Chief Executive Officer of World Wildlife Fund Philippines and Brahma Chellaney, Professor of Strategic Studies, India Centre for Policy Research. NOTES TO EDITORS About the Survey Shell commissioned Ipsos to produce the “Future Energy Survey” in nine Asian countries – Brunei, Korea, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam – to assess Asian respondents’ views on the future of energy. 8,446 participants took part in the survey from January to December 2013. About Powering Progress Together The POWERING PROGRESS TOGETHER conference will explore the nexus, the forces behind it and the inspiring collaborations that are making a difference. It will unite international speakers on interactive panel discussions with representatives from business, NGOs, local governments and tomorrow’s leaders. ENQUIRIES Serene Loo Shell Spokesperson, Asia-Pacific +65 97297294 Serene.Loo@shell.com Julia Wei Edelman +65 9107 4446 Julia.Wei@edelman.com Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this press release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this press release refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Companies over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to “joint ventures” and companies over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. In this release, joint ventures and associates may also be referred to as “equity-accounted investments”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect (for example, through our 23% shareholding in Woodside Petroleum Ltd.) ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This press release contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this press release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking statements contained in this press release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2012 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this press release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release, 3 February 2014, Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this press release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. You can also obtain these forms from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Shell India announces the winners of ‘Shell Junior National Science Scholarship’ 2013 Jan 17, 2014 3 national and 18 regional winners along with their mentor teachers felicitated at an awards ceremony in New Delhi. New Delhi, January 16, 2014 – Shell, one of the largest and most diversified international investors in India's energy sector among all global integrated oil companies announced the winners of Shell Junior National Science Scholarship Examination 2013 at the felicitation ceremony today. Held in association with implementation partner British Council and knowledge partner National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), this year's edition showed a remarkable increase in the number of schools that participated in this scholarship examination. Out of the 7000+ students who participated in the Scholarship examination, three lucky National Winners were selected from New Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai namely Kushagra Juneja, Ameya Patwardhan and G Pradeep respectively. These National Winners were selected out of the 21 regional winners and received a cash prize of Rs. 125,000 each. In addition, 18 regional winners were awarded a cash prize of Rs 50,000 each. The examination held on December 8, 2013 saw attendance of 7000+ students of class 9th and 10th standard from 450 schools across 7 cities - New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Ahmedabad. The 90 minute examination comprised mainly objective type questions on science topics (Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics) and energy-related issues. On the sidelines of Scholarship initiative, Shell India also launched a survey themed ‘Energy Sustainability & Conservation’ which was conducted with students alongwith Scholarship examination. Key findings of the survey were revealed today post felicitation of winners. The Survey triggered some very interesting findings highlighting youth’s awareness levels, challenges our country is facing from Energy sustainability perspective and how are they contributing in their own way to conserve energy. Speaking on the occasion Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India said, “We at Shell are committed to a better world and a better future for our children. As major players in the oil and gas industry globally, we’ve always been at the forefront of driving thought leadership in sustainability and best practices”. “Shell Junior National Science Scholarship alongwith the survey play a key role in supporting such a trajectory. We thank British Council and the National Council of Science Museums for their efforts in this engagement. We hope that this endeavour helps in building awareness around criticality of the issues. Sensitizing the youth and getting them up to speed is the single initiative that can create ripples towards a sustainable future”, she added. Mr. Richard Everitt, Director Education and Society, British Council said, “We are overwhelmed with the response received and the level of talent that we are able to connect with through this initiative which is into its second edition. It’s our pleasure to collaborate with Shell India yet again and we are sure that this association will lead to greater cultural relations and youth empowerment, which is a common goal for both British Council & Shell.” In conjunction with the scholarship program, the mentor teachers of the National winners will also get an opportunity to visit UK for a week-long continuing professional development training. The 18 regional winners’ mentors will get an opportunity to attend a 3-day science enrichment workshop in India. Ends For media enquiries, please contact: Edelman India Chetna Sachdeva M: +91 9958782727 E: chetna.sachdeva@edelman.com Rakhi Aurora M: +91 9899138902 E: rakhi.aurora@edelman.com Here is the complete list of regional and national winners. News and Media Releases 2013Media releases published in 2013 by Shell in India Registration open for Shell Junior National Science Scholarship 2013 Oct 02, 2013 Inviting schools to register for a 90-minute exam based scholarship for Class IX and X Shell Retail Demonstrates its Commitment to Fuel Economy May 16, 2013 Launches Shell Fuel Economy campaign to help Indians learn how to save fuel and improve efficiency. Shell Makes Rapid Progress on LNG Terminal Project at Kakinada Deepwater Port May 09, 2013 NEW DELHI, MAY 6th 2013: Shell and Kakinada Seaports (KSPL) have achieved two important milestones towards implementing the Andhra LNG import terminal project with the submission of the draft Environmental Impact Assessment report and the signing of the Port Services Agreement. Shell launches New Lens Scenarios in India Apr 29, 2013 The New Lens Scenarios, which look at trends in the economy, politics and energy as far ahead as 2100, underscore the critical role that government policies could play in shaping the future. Shell to Challenge Income Tax Order Feb 04, 2013 NEW DELHI, MONDAY FEB 04, 2013: Shell India unequivocally states that recent media reports claiming tax liabilities involving transfer of shares are incorrect. Winners of the Shell Junior National Science Scholars Award Programme announced Jan 14, 2013 Congratulations to all the winners Registration open for Shell Junior National Science Scholarship 2013 Oct 02, 2013 Inviting schools to register for a 90-minute exam based scholarship for Class IX and X Shell India opens registration for its second “Shell Junior National Science Scholars” programme. Brought to you by Shell India in partnership with the British Council and with National Council of Science Museums (NCSM) as the knowledge partner, the Shell Junior National Science Scholarship 2013 examination will be held on Sunday, 08 December 2013. The examination will be held simultaneously in 7 cities across India—New Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad. The examination will comprise mainly objective type questions on science topics (physics, chemistry, and mathematics) and energy-related issues. Students from classes IX and X are allowed to participate in this all-India science examination. There will be one subjective type question. The answer to the subjective question will serve as a tie-breaker and only be assessed if scores of the winning students stand equal. Rules for Registration Registration process will be online only. Registration can be done only by schools. Students are not allowed to register individually. Students currently studying in class IX and X are only allowed to participate. A school can register only once and a maximum of 20 students can be nominated from one school. Last date for registration is 30th October 2013. More information on www.britishcouncil.org/schoolsonline, www.ncsm.gov.in or www.bitm.gov.in Prizes: There will be 3 regional winners from each of the examination venues. Each winner will receive a cash award of Rs. 50000 which they can spend on educational purposes. There will be 3 national winners (from the 21 regional winners) who will receive an additional cash award of Rs 75000 each. The mentor teachers of the 3 national winners will get an opportunity to visit UK for week-long continuing professional development training. The mentor teachers of the remaining 18 regional winners will get an opportunity to attend a 3-day science enrichment workshop in India. Contact details: For queries related to the registration process, please feel free to contact: bitm.sjnss@gmail.com Phone 033-22892817. Shell Retail Demonstrates its Commitment to Fuel Economy May 16, 2013 Launches Shell Fuel Economy campaign to help Indians learn how to save fuel and improve efficiency. Shell Fuel Economy Refresh reinforces Shell’s commitment to fuel economy. The campaign aims to emphasize the value of fuel economy and the long-term benefits of adopting fuel efficiency as a way of life. At the heart of this campaign is the commitment of Shell Fuel Economy Formula, a breakthrough development in fuels technology that is designed to help drivers go further. Shell Super the petrol and diesel variation of the regular maingrade fuel, ensures greater fuel efficiency through superior quality. As the Shell Fuel Economy Refresh initiative kicks off, a comprehensive awareness and consumer engagement drive was activated across all Shell fuel pumps. A compelling radio campaign and prominent placements in outdoor media have been designed to encourage vehicle owners to embrace the benefits of Shell Fuel Economy fuels. Additionally, an in-depth orientation exercise, targeted at Shell’s retailers, attempts to reinforce the fuel economy philosophy, therefore enabling them to guide customers meaningfully. The different elements of the Shell Fuel Economy Refresh initiative seek to ultimately educate motorists about responsible driving behaviours and reiterate the importance of smart fuelling, for greater fuel efficiency. Shell Fuel Economy is rooted in more than a century’s worth of R&D innovation. Shell’s fuel scientists have dedicated years of research towards making fuel as efficient as possible – reaching some significant milestones along the way. The campaign goes live across all nine cities where Shell Retail India has operations, namely Bangalore, Mysore, Pune, Hyderabad, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Baroda, Rajkot and Surat. Shell Fuel Economy at Work The Fuel Economy Formula is designed to promote engine cleanliness, therefore improving engine efficiency. Shell fuel economy is formulated with a unique combination of additives that are designed to maintain engine performance by keeping injectors clean, protecting valuable engine parts, protecting against corrosion and keeping engine fuel systems clean. Improved engine efficiency can be manifested in a number of ways, one of which can be reduced fuel consumption and therefore extra kilometres. The top 5 fuel-saving actions are: Drive Smoothly Avoid accelerating or having to brake too often Use the Top Gear Change up to a higher gear as early as possible Reduce Speed Avoid driving faster than 110km/hour Avoid Excessive Idling Switch the engine off after ten seconds or less when idling Avoid Over-Revving Avoid over-revving the engine when changing gears Shell Makes Rapid Progress on LNG Terminal Project at Kakinada Deepwater Port May 09, 2013 NEW DELHI, MAY 6th 2013: Shell and Kakinada Seaports (KSPL) have achieved two important milestones towards implementing the Andhra LNG import terminal project with the submission of the draft Environmental Impact Assessment report and the signing of the Port Services Agreement. The draft Environmental Impact Assessment report for the proposed development of the Andhra LNG terminal at the Kakinada deepwater port was recently submitted to the State Pollution Control Board in Kakinada. On the 11th of April 2013, Shell and KSPL signed the Port Services Agreement, setting out the commercial arrangements underlying the development and operation of the required port facilities for the entire duration of the project. Roger Bounds, Shell Vice President Global LNG said “Shell welcomes the signing of the Port Services Agreement and the imminent public hearing on the site following the submission of the draft EIA. The Kakinada project uniquely benefits from Shell’s presence in several existing and planned LNG supply projects around the world which will help ensure diversity and security of supply to the State of Andhra Pradesh”. Dr Yasmine Hilton, Chairman of Shell Companies in India said, “India is an important market for LNG and the states of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh (AP) are key markets for gas in India. After the success of Shell’s Hazira terminal on the west coast in Gujarat, Shell is keen to set up an LNG receiving terminal on the East coast in AP. We are delighted with the rapid progress we have made and we look forward to successfully implementing the first Floating and Storage Regasification Unit (FSRU) in India with our partners”. The project, which was conceived by Shell and its partners in 2011, is now rapidly advancing to fruition. The technical scope development and associated execution plan is nearing its completion. The project is progressing as per plan and is on track to potentially becoming the first LNG import terminal on the East Coast. The terminal will start with a capacity of up to 5 million tons per annum (mtpa) and is designed for easy expandability to 10+ mtpa to meet the surging demand for gas in the region. Shell with its global experience in project delivery and its specific experience in LNG and LNG regasification and FSRU projects is ideally placed to successfully, efficiently and timely deliver this important project for Andhra Pradesh. Shell has since established the project company by the name of Andhra LNG Pvt Ltd as the venture to develop, implement and operate the LNG import and regasification terminal. Dr Sander Stegenga, senior Shell LNG manager and Andhra LNG Pvt Ltd Chief Executive Officer, said “The signing of the PSA with KSPL and submission of the EIA report mark important milestones in the development of the project, and brings Shell and KSPL a step closer to delivering the much needed gas supply to Andhra Pradesh and contributing towards the development of gas driven economic growth in the State”. The potential establishment of the LNG import and regasification terminal at the Kakinada Deepwater port in Andhra Pradesh would represent the next significant Foreign Direct Investment for Shell in the country and Andhra Pradesh. ENDS For further information please contact Communications Dept. Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd Rahul Sharma at rahul.r.sharma@shell.com Gurmeet Kaur at gurmeet.kaur@shell.com Shell Media Relations APAC team Cindy Lopez at cindy.lopez@shell.com Serene Loo at serene.loo@shell.com Mich Villar at mich.villar@shell.com NOTE TO EDITORS Cautionary Note The companies in which Royal Dutch Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate entities. In this media release “Shell”, “Shell group” and “Royal Dutch Shell” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Royal Dutch Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular company or companies. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this media release refer to companies over which Royal Dutch Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Companies over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to “joint ventures” and companies over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. In this media release, joint ventures and associates may also be referred to as “equity-accounted investments”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect (for example, through our 23% shareholding in Woodside Petroleum Ltd.) ownership interest held by Shell in a venture, partnership or company, after exclusion of all third-party interest. This media release contains forward-looking statements concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Royal Dutch Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Royal Dutch Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Royal Dutch Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this media release, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; and (m) changes in trading conditions. All forward-looking statements contained in this media release are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Royal Dutch Shell’s 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2012 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward looking statements contained in this media release and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this media release, May 3 2013. Neither Royal Dutch Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this media release. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this media release that United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. You can also obtain these forms from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. About Shell Shell is a global leader in LNG and helped pioneer the liquefied natural gas (LNG) sector, providing the technology for the world's first commercial liquefaction plant in 1964. Shell is a participant in eight operating LNG projects in operation with some 21 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) operational LNG capacity, in seven countries, with another ready for start up and three new projects under construction and 15 mtpa of LNG options. Shell was a partner in the first-ever purpose built LNG carrier and has been delivering LNG safely for nearly half a century. Today Shell is the world’s largest LNG shipping operator, with interests in around a quarter of the LNG vessels in operation. Shell is the majority shareholder and operator of the Hazira terminal in Gujarat, and has recently supported the development of a similar FSRU based terminal in Dubai. About Kakinada Sea Ports Limited Kakinada Sea Ports Limited (KSPL) operates the Kakinada Deep Water Port in Andhra Pradesh East Coast India. It was the first operational privatized port on the East Coast. The vantagious position of the Port allows it to handle a unique mix of bulk, liquid, break bulk, containers, project cargoes & service offshore Oil & Gas exploration activities of Krishna – Godavari Basin. KSPL is truly committed to Customer needs, safe working practices, supply chain management and environment protection. Shell launches New Lens Scenarios in India Apr 29, 2013 The New Lens Scenarios, which look at trends in the economy, politics and energy as far ahead as 2100, underscore the critical role that government policies could play in shaping the future. Shell launched the New Lens Scenarios in India on Friday, 12th April at an event organised by FICCI (Federation of India Chambers of Commerce and Industry) in New Delhi. Mr. Arun Maira, Member, Planning Commission was the Chief Guest at the event. The event comprised of a panel session which included Mr. Jeremy Bentham, Head of the Scenarios team, Shell International, Mr. Suman Bery, Cheif Economist, Shell International, Dr. A. Didar Singh, Secretary General, FICCI, Mr. Sidharth Birla, Sr. Vice President FICCI and Dr. Arunabha Ghosh, Chief Executive, Council on Environment Energy and Water. The scenarios explore two possible ways the 21st century could unfold, with dramatically different implications for society and the world’s energy system. One scenario sees cleaner-burning natural gas becoming the most important energy source globally by the 2030s and early action to limit carbon dioxide emissions. The other sees solar becoming the top source by about 2070, but with slower action to address the threat of climate change. “The New Lens Scenarios have been prepared at a time of profound upheaval in global society. As a result, these are possibly the most ambitious scenarios that Shell has attempted in the 40 years that the scenarios have existed. India is already central to many of the themes of these scenarios: the shift in the world’s economic centre of gravity toward Asian and other emerging markets, the need to fashion a new global order to reflect these changes, the impact of connectivity on governance and the tension between legitimate growth aspirations and planetary boundaries,” said Jeremy Bentham, Vice President, Global Business Environment, Shell International, who presented the scenarios at FICCI. Shell has a 40-year history of using scenario planning to explore possible future landscapes and aid strategic decision-making. The latest publication continues a tradition of sharing summaries of the scenarios to contribute to the public debate about possible ways to tackle some of society’s long-term challenges. The New Lens Scenarios, which look at trends in the economy, politics and energy as far ahead as 2100, underscore the critical role that government policies could play in shaping the future. “India is predicted to be one of the world’s largest economies, but the road ahead is fraught with challenges – where 80% of our energy is imported and many people still do not have access to electricity. I hope the scenario discussions will enrich our collective knowledge and bring about constructive ideas for inclusive growth” said Yasmine Hilton, Chairman Shell India. With the world’s population headed toward 9.5 billion by 2060 and the rapid growth of emerging economies lifting millions of people out of poverty for the first time, the scenarios project that world energy demand could double over the next 50 years. Called Mountains and Oceans, Shell’s scenarios explore two plausible future pathways for society. Each scenario dives into the implications for the pace of global economic development, the types of energy we use to power our lives and the growth in greenhouse gas emissions. “The thinking on the New Lens Scenarios began crystallizing a year ago. Just as much as the thinking behind the scenarios, what has impressed me is the way in which the scenarios are used to provide a common language across Shell for thinking systematically about an uncertain future. India’s 12th Five-Year Plan has also adopted scenarios to stimulate a national dialogue on the choices facing this country,” said Suman Bery, Chief Economist, Shell International, who also presented the scenarios. The scenarios look further into the future than many other outlooks and highlight some surprising possible developments. Both see global emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) dropping to near zero by 2100. One factor is increasing use of technology that takes CO2 out of the atmosphere, for instance by burning biomass to produce electricity, and then storing emissions underground. Although the Oceans scenario sees a dramatic increase in solar power, it also envisions greater fossil fuel use and higher total CO2 emissions over the century than the Mountains scenario, which will likely have more impact on the world’s climate. To explore Mountains and Oceans in more detail, download Shell’s New Lens Scenarios. Shell to Challenge Income Tax Order Feb 04, 2013 NEW DELHI, MONDAY FEB 04, 2013: Shell India unequivocally states that recent media reports claiming tax liabilities involving transfer of shares are incorrect. “Recent media reports on tax evasion are baseless and Shell India will challenge this order strongly and is evaluating all options for redress. Shell globally and in India complies with all applicable local regulations and laws and has also done so in this instance - in full compliance with the Shell Group Business Principles”, said Dr. Yasmine Hilton, Chairman Shell Group of Companies in India, Shell India’s considered view is that the transfer pricing order is based on an incorrect interpretation of the Indian tax regulations and is bad in law as this is a capital receipt on which income tax cannot be levied. Funding of a subsidiary through issue of shares is common in India and globally. “Taxing the money received by Shell India is in effect a tax on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), which is contrary not only to law but also to the spirit of the recent global trip by the Finance Minister to attract further FDI into India”, added Dr. Yasmine Hilton. The Royal Dutch Shell group has over the last few years made significant investments in India. Equity injection was used to finance these investments and to fund the ordinary business activities of Shell India. Shell Gas BV was the only parent of Shell India before this equity issue and continued to be so after the issue. A Rs 15220 crore (USD 2.7 billion) adjustment has been proposed in the transfer pricing order of FY 08-09 of Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd (Shell India), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Royal Dutch Shell Group of Companies. This adjustment is on account of an issue of equity shares by Shell India to its sole parent Shell Gas BV, in March 2009. Against a fresh equity injection of Rs 867 crores (USD 160 million) shares aggregating to 86.7 crore, were issued at a value of Rs 10 per share. The share issuances were in accordance with the terms of the foreign investment policy, the prevailing exchange control regulation, the applicable corporate and related laws. The valuation of the shares was undertaken by a certified independent valuer who assessed the value (in line with the foreign investment and exchange control laws) to be below Rs 10 per share and the issue was made at Rs 10 per share. The valuation certificates were filed with the regulatory authorities. The transfer pricing order has valued these at Rs 183 per share even though there are no provisions under the income tax law for such revaluation. As such the Royal Dutch Shell group intends challenging the order and will be evaluating all options for redress. ENQUIRIES: Shell India Corporate Communications +91 8800298740 Or the APAC media relations team: Cindy Lopez at cindy.lopez@shell.com Serene Loo at serene.loo@shell.com Mich Villar at mich.villar@shell.com Winners of the Shell Junior National Science Scholars Award Programme announced Jan 14, 2013 Congratulations to all the winners Based on the examination conducted on 16th December 2013, here are the winners of the Shell Junior National Science Scholars Award Programme. About 7000 students from over 250 schools took the exam. The national winners will get a one-time scholarship of Rs. 75,000 each while the Regional winners will get a one-time scholarship of Rs. 50,000 each. The prize distribution will be held on Tuesday, January 22, 2013 at New Delhi. The winners will receive individual mails on the award ceremony soon. NATIONAL WINNERS 1. Shyam Shankar H R Christ Nagar Hr Sec School Trivandrum 2. Pranshu Agarwal Delhi Public School Bokaro, Jharkhand 3. Saksham Gupta Birla Vidya Niketan Delhi REGIONAL WINNERS Test Centre: AHMEDABAD 1. Mehta Krish U. The H B Kapadia New High School Ahmedabad, Gujarat 2. Manav Desai Anand Vidya Vihar Gotri, Gujarat 3. Atarva Tanksle New Era Senior Secondary School Nizampura Test Centre: BANGALORE 1. Sesh S Sri Kumaran Children's Home Bangalore 2. Shreyas Sudhaman Sri Kumaran Public School Bangalore 3. Aparna Sanjay Bhavans Vidya Mandir Kochi Test Centre: CHENNAI 1. Shyam Shankar H R Christ Nagar Hr Sec School Trivandrum 2. S. Raghav Vaidyanathan Bhavan's Vidya Mandir Elamakkara, Kochi 3. Pradeep G The PSBB Millennium School Chennai Test Centre: DELHI 1. Saksham Gupta Birla Vidya Niketan New Delhi 2. Sagar Goyal Delhi Public School Rohini, New Delhi 3. Aditya Vats Ryan International School Rohini, New Delhi Test Centre: KOLKATA 1. Pranshu Agarwal Delhi Public School Bokaro, Jharkhand 2. Harshavardhan Delhi Public School Bokaro, Jharkhand 3. Aakashdeep Ghosh Delhi Public School, Megacity Rajarhat, Kolkata Test Centre: MUMBAI 1. Maulashree Shanbhag Smt Sulochanadevi Singhania School Jekegram, Maharashtra 2. Armaan Saha Podar International School Mumbai, Maharashtra 3. Daanish Rode Utpal Shanghvi School Mumbai, Maharashtra About 7000 students from more than 250 schools to take the Shell Junior National Science Scholars exam Shell India announces “Shell Junior National Science Scholars” programme News and Media Releases 2012Media releases published in 2012 by Shell in India About 7000 students from more than 250 schools to take the Shell Junior National Science Scholars exam Dec 11, 2012 The exam was conducted on Sunday, 16th December 2012 in six cities in India. Shell to expand technology footprint in Asia Nov 08, 2012 Shell to open third global hub for technology and innovation in Bengaluru Shell India announces “Shell Junior National Science Scholars” programme. Oct 19, 2012 Inviting schools to register for a unique science scholarship programme Shell announces contest winners of “Win Free Fuel” Sep 12, 2012 Shell India Markets Private limited has conducted the prize distribution ceremony for the winners of the “Win Free Fuel” contest at their retail outlet on the V M road in Bangalore on 31st of August. The contest was run between 15th of June 2012 and 31st of July 2012. A total of 978 winners have won free fuel from Shell during this period. Two grand prizes of free fuel worth INR 50,000 each were won by Mr. Christian Abhishek from Ahmedabad and Mr. Rakesh Kumar Agarwal from Bangalore. Shell, Reliance and KSPL make rapid progress in setting up LNG Terminal on India’s East Coast May 31, 2012 The LNG import and regasification terminal at the Kakinada Deepwater port in Andhra Pradesh (India) is moving to its next phase in implementation. Royal Dutch Shell, Reliance Power and Kakinada Seaports have made steady progress towards implementing the project following intense developmental activities since early 2011. New Chairman at Shell India Apr 12, 2012 Vikram Singh Mehta, Chairman, Shell Companies in India has chosen to step out of the company after 24 years of service, effective October 31, 2012. Shell Advance 7 Riding Wonders campaign ends on the winning route in India Feb 22, 2012 On 17th February 2012, Shell Advance visited Munnar, India with Italian competition winner Alessandro Donadello for a memorable ride along the newly crowned Ultimate Riding Wonder – the spectacular Coorg-Ooty-Munnar route. About 7000 students from more than 250 schools to take the Shell Junior National Science Scholars exam Dec 11, 2012 The exam was conducted on Sunday, 16th December 2012 in six cities in India. At Shell, we’ve always had an eye on the future. That is why we announced the Shell Junior National Science Scholars Award Programme, a platform to nurture young and curious minds for the challenges of tomorrow, implemented by the British Council and supported by the National Council of Science Museums as the knowledge partner. The exam was conducted in six cities – Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Chennai and Bangalore, The students were tested in Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and General Knowledge (Energy), comprising a total 100 objective type questions and one subjective question. The students competed to be one of the 18 regional winners who will get a one-time cash scholarship of Rs. 50,000 each and the 3 national winners who will get Rs. 75,000 each. Twelve teachers will be selected from the mentor teachers of the regional and national winners and will receive the “Science Excellence Award” which includes an opportunity to visit the National Science Centre, UK for a one week workshop/training. The result will be announced on Tuesday, 15th January 2013. Shell India announces “Shell Junior National Science Scholars” programme Shell to expand technology footprint in Asia Nov 08, 2012 Shell to open third global hub for technology and innovation in Bengaluru Today, Shell laid the foundation stone for a brand new technology facility in Bengaluru, India, which marks the next step in the company’s expansion into developing technology in Asia. The bespoke research and technology site will house up to 1,500 technology specialists who will work on some of Shell’s key projects globally. Honourable Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries of Government of Karnataka, Shri Murugesh Nirani and Dr Matthias Bichsel, Director, Projects & Technology, Royal Dutch Shell, unveiled the foundation stone of the facility in the presence of the Dutch Ambassador to India His Excellency Mr. Alphonsus Stoelinga, Dr Yasmine Hilton, Chairman Shell Companies in India, Mr Ian Felton, British Deputy High Commissioner in Bengaluru and Mr. S V Ranganath, Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka amongst other senior dignitaries. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Matthias Bichsel, , said, “This world-class technology hub, encompassing much of Shell's innovative scientific and engineering capability, will be the largest centre of its kind in this part of the world and fits with our strategy of building a company which is led by technology. We see a clear need to align our technology capabilities with our future growth markets. Both India and China, where we recently strengthened our technology footprint, are exciting prospects for us, as well as Asia more broadly.” Shell currently employs around 900 research and development staff in two separate facilities. This new development, spread over 40 acres at Devanhalli, Bengaluru, will expand that number to around 1,500 and provide new opportunities for collaboration across discipline and departmental boundaries, promoting innovative thinking. It will become one of Shell’s three global technology hubs, which will be supported by other research centres across the organisation’s portfolio. The teams in Bengaluru currently support Shell's pioneering floating, liquefied natural gas facility (FLNG), and also giant projects such as Majnoon in Iraq, Sakhalin in Russia, Abadi in Indonesia, and Arrow in Australia. And aligning with Shell’s growth strategy for integrated gas, a new 20-strong LNG team has also been established. “Shell has been a technology pioneer for more than a century, with a history of several ‘firsts’ in India since 1928,” said Dr Yasmine Hilton, Chairman, Shell Companies in India. “This technology centre is a first for Shell, not just in India but in Asia and Oceania. Shell’s business model in India has proved to be very robust: it is more than just selling products to India, it's about engaging the hearts and minds of Indian people. Shell’s decision to strengthen our scale of R&D in India has been greatly influenced by the quality of talent and work that we have experienced here. The innovation developed at new technology centre in Bengaluru will be vital to Shell’s success and our endeavours to meet the energy challenges in the coming years.” The new site for Shell Technology Centre, operational in around the middle of the decade, will encompass the full breadth of Shell's scientific and engineering capability by providing a focus for fundamental and applied research to sit alongside subsurface and facility engineering. Its services will span upstream exploration and production activities; technology for downstream refinery and chemical operations and products; computational science and fundamental research. Dr Matthias summarised, “Today’s announcement cements Bengaluru, and Asia, as playing a key role in driving Shell’s aspiration to be the most competitive and innovative energy company.” Shell India announces “Shell Junior National Science Scholars” programme. Oct 19, 2012 Inviting schools to register for a unique science scholarship programme The “Shell Junior National Science Scholars” programme, implemented by the British Council in India comprises a one and a half hour exam based scholarship for Class IX and X students in the field of Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. The test which will be held in December this year aims at encouraging high-school students to look at a career in engineering. The National Council of Science Museums is the knowledge partner for the programme. Deepak Mukarji, Country Head -Corporate Affairs, Shell Companies in India said, “This programme creates a linkage between India’s fascination with technical education and the fact that Shell is the world leader in innovation and technology in the energy sector.” Rob Lynes, Director, British Council India said,” We are delighted to partner a world leader like Shell that is keen to nurture young technical and scientific talent in the country. It takes further the objectives of the British Council in India which has had a long and enduring connection with India’s youth”. Programme highlights: The test will be held in six cities i.e. Delhi, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore and Chennai Apart from English, the test will be conducted in six regional languages i.e. Hindi, Tamil, Bangla, Marathi, Kannada and Gujarati Subjects will include Physics, Chemistry, Maths and General Knowledge The test will mainly be objective type with only one subjective question to determine the student's aptitude and motivation for science Three top scorers from each of the six locations (18 in all) will receive the Regional Level Award. The three toppers (basis marks scored) from amongst these regional winners will receive the National Level Awards. A student could win two prizes: the Shell Junior Regional Science Scholar Award as well as the Shell Junior National Science Scholar Award As part of the scholarship programme, science teacher(s) from participating schools will be required to submit a question bank of 5 questions each. Prizes: 18 regional winners will get a scholarship of Rs. 50,000 each and the 3 national winners will get Rs. 75,000 each 12 teachers will be selected from the mentor teachers of the regional and national winners and will receive the “Science Excellence Award” which includes an opportunity to visit the National Science Centre, UK for a one week workshop/training. Timeline: Thursday, 20 September 2012 – Registration opens Monday, 15th October 2012 – Registration closes at 11.59 pm Sunday, 16th December 2012 – Test held Tuesday, 15th January 2013 – Announcement of Results Interested schools will have to complete a registration form, available along with instructions, on British Council Schools Online website. Shell announces contest winners of “Win Free Fuel” Sep 12, 2012 Shell India Markets Private limited has conducted the prize distribution ceremony for the winners of the “Win Free Fuel” contest at their retail outlet on the V M road in Bangalore on 31st of August. The contest was run between 15th of June 2012 and 31st of July 2012. A total of 978 winners have won free fuel from Shell during this period. Two grand prizes of free fuel worth INR 50,000 each were won by Mr. Christian Abhishek from Ahmedabad and Mr. Rakesh Kumar Agarwal from Bangalore. The competition was run across the states of Karnataka and Gujarat and the highlights are : 20 winners each winning free fuel of Rs. 1,000/- every day for 47 days. Six winners each winning weekly draw of free fuel worth Rs. 4,000/- every week for 6 weeks. Two winners winning free fuel worth Rs. 50,000/- (one each from Karnataka and Gujarat). The grand prize winner (winner of Rs 50,000 for Karnataka) will receive a “Shell Cash” card loaded with an amount of Rs 50,000. He will be the first customer to receive the “Shell Cash” card, a new prepaid card being launched by Shell India. The Shell Cash card will be accepted across all the Shell outlets in Bangalore and gives its customers the freedom to go cashless at Shell retail outlets. Mr. Rakesh Kumar Agarwal has received the first “Shell Cash” card loaded with the prize money from Mr. Ravi Sundararajan, GM -Retail for Shell India. Shell, Reliance and KSPL make rapid progress in setting up LNG Terminal on India’s East Coast May 31, 2012 The LNG import and regasification terminal at the Kakinada Deepwater port in Andhra Pradesh (India) is moving to its next phase in implementation. Royal Dutch Shell, Reliance Power and Kakinada Seaports have made steady progress towards implementing the project following intense developmental activities since early 2011. Major development activities completed for planned start-up in 2014; project to start with capacity of 5 mtpa and provision for easy expansion to 10 mtpa. Mr. De la Rey Venter, Global Head of LNG, Royal Dutch Shell, said, “India is an important market for LNG and the states of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh (AP) have the highest demand for gas in India. After the success of Shell’s Hazira terminal in Gujarat, Shell is keen to set up an LNG receiving terminal in AP. We are pleased to have reached an agreement with Reliance and KSPL to implement the LNG terminal in AP and look forward to successfully progressing this project with our partners”. An agreement was signed in December 2011 to undertake a number of joint technical studies and commercial agreements. With the completion of such studies and agreements, the consortium has finalized the specific location of a Floating Storage and Regasification Unit (“FSRU”) based receiving terminal adjacent to the existing island breakwater thus minimizing terrestrial impact as little or no onshore facilities will be required. Besides the location, the orientation and specifications of the FSRU have also been agreed. The consortium is currently engaged with FSRU suppliers for selection of a preferred provider. The project is progressing as per plan for completion in 2014 and statutory clearances are being progressed accordingly. The project is expected to start with a capacity up to 5 million tons per annum (mtpa) and is designed for easy expandability to 10+ mtpa to meet the surging demand for gas in the region. The project will be designed to the highest international standards associated with the LNG industry. FSRUs, in addition to enabling faster start up, are also lower in cost than onshore terminals and allow for modular expansion. Mr. J P Chalasani, CEO, Reliance Power Limited, said, “The LNG receiving terminal in AP is of strategic importance to Andhra Pradesh and India. We believe Shell, with its large LNG portfolio and experience in operating LNG terminals will add immense value to the project. Kakinada, with its proximity to our Samalkot power plant and several other gas consumers, is a natural choice for setting up an LNG terminal. We are delighted to have Shell and KSPL as our partners in setting this landmark project on the east coast of India”. Shell and RPL will hold the majority of the equity in the terminal company and this would represent the next significant Foreign Direct Investment in the country and Andhra Pradesh. Kakinada Seaports operates the Kakinada Deepwater Port which has very suitable marine conditions for the project. Shell holds the largest equity share of LNG capacity among International Oil Companies. In 2011, joint ventures in which Shell has an interest supplied more than 30% of global LNG volumes. Shell majority owns and operates one of India’s two operating LNG import terminals, the Hazira terminal in Gujarat, and have recently supported the development of a similar FSRU based terminal in Dubai. This project uniquely benefits from Shell’s presence in several existing and planned LNG supply projects around the world which will help ensure diversity and security of supply. An official spokesperson for KSPL, said, “The Kakinada deepwater port is ideally suited for setting up an LNG terminal in the state of AP and has the vision of developing as a world class marine facility. Shell being a leading LNG supplier globally and Reliance, with its large gas demand are natural partners for setting up an LNG terminal at our port. We look forward to successful implementation of the project for the benefit of all stakeholders, especially the gas customers in AP”. ENDS Notes to Editors: About Shell Shell is a global leader in LNG and helped pioneer the liquefied natural gas (LNG) sector, providing the technology for the world's first commercial liquefaction plant in 1964. Shell is a participant in eight operating LNG projects in operation with some 21 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) operational LNG capacity, in seven countries, with another ready for start up and three new projects under construction and 15 mtpa of LNG options. Shell was a partner in the first-ever purpose built LNG carrier and has been delivering LNG safely for nearly half a century. Today Shell is the world’s largest LNG shipping operator, with interests in around a quarter of the LNG vessels in operation. About Reliance Power Limited Reliance Power Limited, a part of Reliance Group, is India's leading private sector power generation company. The company has the largest portfolio of power projects in the private sector based on coal, gas, hydro and renewable energy, with an operating portfolio of 1,240 MW. Reliance Power is setting up India's largest gas based power plant with 2,400 MW at Samalkot in Andhra Pradesh. The company also has the largest captive coal reserves in the private sector, estimated at more than two billion tonnes. Besides, the company has purchased three coal mines in Indonesia and also has plans to develop coal bed methane based generation capacity. About Kakinada Sea Ports Limited Kakinada Sea Ports Limited (KSPL) operates the Kakinada Deep Water Port in Andhra Pradesh East Coast India. It was the first operational privatized port on the East Coast. The vantagious position of the Port allows it to handle a unique mix of bulk, liquid, break bulk, containers, project cargoes & service offshore Oil & Gas exploration activities of Krishna – Godavari Basin. KSPL is truly committed to Customer needs, safe working practices, supply chain management and environment protection. New Chairman at Shell India Apr 12, 2012 Vikram Singh Mehta, Chairman, Shell Companies in India has chosen to step out of the company after 24 years of service, effective October 31, 2012. Since 1993, Vikram has significantly enabled growth across diverse Shell businesses in India and has set a strong platform for future expansion. Shell today is amongst the largest energy companies in India and is the only major international energy company with a licence to retail fuels (petrol and diesel) and aviation fuel as well as marketing specialty products like lubricants and bitumen. It has one of the country’s two LNG regasification terminals at Hazira (in a JV with Total of France) and has set up a world class technology center in Bangalore. Dr. Yasmine Hilton, who succeeds Vikram, was born in Mumbai and joined the Shell Group in 1979. She holds a PhD in Genetics, and has worked in a number of leadership roles across the Shell Group. Yasmine is currently based in London and will be relocating to India in September 2012 Shell Advance 7 Riding Wonders campaign ends on the winning route in India Feb 22, 2012 On 17th February 2012, Shell Advance visited Munnar, India with Italian competition winner Alessandro Donadello for a memorable ride along the newly crowned Ultimate Riding Wonder – the spectacular Coorg-Ooty-Munnar route. The road from Coorg to Munnar via Ooty was selected from the top seven routes unveiled in a ceremony at the 2011 Shell Advance MotoGP after an extensive online voting campaign. A panel of experts from Ducati, Dorna, Shell Advance and the Sepang International Circuit, as well as selected media from China, India and Indonesia, in Sepang, Malaysia led a discussion before voting on which route should be crowned the world’s Ultimate Riding Wonder. The road from Coorg to Munnar in India was crowned for its outstanding beauty and variety of riding conditions. The main focus of the trip to India was the visit to the Ultimate Riding Wonder, where the winner met up with Sandeep Gajjar. A professional rider, Mr Gajjar was in charge of the trip to experience the Coorg - Munnar road. The pair travelled along the route stopping on numerous occasions to take in the fantastic scenery and stretch their legs. Mr Gajjar commented: ‘It’s been a great day today, what a pleasure to be able to ride such a great road on the ultimate Ducati touring bike – I only wish it could have been longer. I’m sure Alessandro enjoyed his time on the Ducati Multistrada and hope it is a memory that he will treasure forever.’ On completing the ride, Mr Donadello said: ‘That was one of the best times I have experienced on the road. India is such an amazing country and to experience it from the seat of a motorbike here in Munnar on the Ultimate Riding Wonder is a joy. Thank you so much to Shell Advance for this unbelievable journey. I will never forget this.’ Nitin Prasad, Country Head, Shell Lubricants, India said: ‘Visiting the Ultimate Riding Wonder with our winner has been a great excitement. I'm glad that our Alessandro has enjoyed himself' “As always, I must extend my thanks to Ducati who have been so supportive of the 7 Riding Wonders of the World campaign, but are also a key partner in the 2012 ‘Key to Freedom’ campaign. I look forward to see the response from the Indian public as they take part in our competition to win a Ducati motorbike from Shell Advance." News and Media Releases 2011Media releases published in 2011 by Shell in India India Route crowned the world's ultimate riding wonder Oct 23, 2011 The "Coorg to Munnar via Ooty" India route was crowned the world's ultimate riding wonder at the 2011 Shell Advance Malaysian Motorcycle Grand Prix. First ever all-girls team from India participated in SEMA Asia 2011 Jul 09, 2011 9 Teams from India including the only all-girls team from Indira Gandhi Institute of Technology, Delhi participated in the contest Shell extends technical partnership with Ducati Feb 17, 2011 Shell announces that Shell Advance’s technical partnership with the Ducati MotoGP team has been extended until the end of the 2013 season India Route crowned the world's ultimate riding wonder Oct 23, 2011 The "Coorg to Munnar via Ooty" India route was crowned the world's ultimate riding wonder at the 2011 Shell Advance Malaysian Motorcycle Grand Prix. After several months of searching, Shell Advance, the leading motorcycle lubricant brand, unveiled Coorg to Munnar via Ooty, India, as the world's ultimate Riding Wonder at an exclusive event held at the 2011 Shell Advance Malaysian Motorcycle Grand Prix. In Sepang, Shell Advance guests joined a panel of experts from Ducati, Dorna, Shell Advance and the Sepang International Circuit, as well as selected media from China, India and Indonesia, in a discussion to decide which route would be crowned the world's ultimate Riding Wonder from the list of the top 7 Riding Wonders voted for by the public. The panellists' votes were combined with the public votes from 8 countries to reveal Coorg to Munnar via Ooty, India as the winner. It received many public votes and was chosen by two of the seven panellists because of its varied scenery, mixture of mountain climbs, twisting corners and diverse wildlife along the route. One lucky guest, Alessandro Donadello from Italy, also won the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to visit India and the Ultimate Riding Wonder. Tanmay Jaswal, Shell Advance Global Marketing Manager: "When Shell Advance launched the 7 Riding Wonders of the World campaign, we were asking biking enthusiasts to help us find the riding roads, tracks and routes around the world that best complement our ethos of Responsiveness, Control and Enjoyment. We were overwhelmed with the response that we received and the results across all 22 routes were so close throughout the competition, but unfortunately there can only be one winner. We would like to congratulate Alessandro on winning and look forward to giving them the chance to experience the world's ultimate Riding Wonder in India." Panellist Nicky Hayden, Ducati Corse rider, said: "I' m really pleased that Coorg to Munnar via Ooty, India has been named the world's ultimate Riding Wonder. There are so many great rides out there and I love the tracks, but think it was a good choice" Alessandro Donadello said, "I can't believe that I've won, I have never won anything in my life before. Thanks to Shell Advance I am here in Malaysia, and now my first trip trip to India It?s like a dream come true. It will be a once-in-a-lifetime experience that I'll never forget!" List of Campaign Winners from India : Mr. Rajinder Kakkar, Delhi Mr. Jayaram Peramanathan, Bangalore Mr. Sanjay Ramkishan Kakani, Yavatmal Mr. Jagdish Srikrishna, Indore Mr. Vinod Kumar, Hoshiarpur Mr. Dinesh Chowdhary, Hyderabad Mr. Sanjeev Talwar, Delhi Mr. Kamesh Talluri, Hyderabad First ever all-girls team from India participated in SEMA Asia 2011 Jul 09, 2011 9 Teams from India including the only all-girls team from Indira Gandhi Institute of Technology, Delhi participated in the contest ‘Shell Eco-Marathon Asia 2011’, an initiative by Shell Plc. for young and aspiring engineering and design students from Asia, which challenges the youth to design and build energy efficient vehicles that travel the farthest distance using the least amount of fuel was concluded on July 09, 2011 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 12 countries participated in SEM Asia 2011, including 9 teams from India and 94 teams in all. Amongst the Indian teams, ‘Team Vidyottama’, from Indira Gandhi Institute of Technology, Delhi was the only all-girls team in the entire event. First time participants the team stood out from among their male counterparts. The Vidoyattama team designed super mileage vehicle based on the idea of solar energy and won loads of appreciation for the design. The Vidyottama team consisted of second year students from Mechanical and Automation Engineering and Electronics and Communication Engineering streams. The team researched for a year before designing the vehicle. Shell Eco-marathon has been running in Europe since 1985 and the United States since 2007, and was held for the first time in Asia at Sepang last year. The teams participating from India are RV College of Engineering – Bangalore, Chitkara Institute of Engineering and Technology - Patiala and Jalandhar (3 teams from this college), Dr. B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology – Jalandhar, Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Technology - New Delhi, Indira Gandhi Institute of Technology - Delhi, Delhi Technological University – Delhi and NIT – Jamshedpur. Mr. Deepak Mukarji, Country Head - Corporate Affairs, Shell Companies in India, said, “At Shell we thrive hard to develop the best technology for our products and we understand styling and designing of vehicles, along with fuel- efficiency is an integral part of whole manufacturing process, and have always recognized and encouraged new and innovative ideas. Through this contest we want to offer young students a platform who aspire to make it big the in the field of automotive designing which eventually will benefit the automotive industry in the long term.” The process of shortlisting the teams from the colleges was a design report submitted with all technical specifications of the vehicle like engine details, transmission system, chassis along with other minute aspects like materials used, dimensions of each part etc. Shell extends technical partnership with Ducati Feb 17, 2011 Shell announces that Shell Advance’s technical partnership with the Ducati MotoGP team has been extended until the end of the 2013 season The extended relationship will ensure the continued development of tailored Shell Advance lubricant and Shell V-Power fuel for the Desmosedici bike. Shell Advance will also continue as the first-fill lubricant of every Ducati bike that leaves the factory in Bologna. Shell has enjoyed an extremely productive and successful relationship with Ducati Corse, first in World Superbikes and then accompanying the Bologna-based team when it moved to MotoGP in 2003. Since then, the partnership has won 31 races, one Manufacturers’, one Teams’ and one Riders’ Title in MotoGP and six Riders’ Championships and nine Constructors’ Championships in World Superbike. News and Media Releases 2010Media releases published in 2010 by Shell in India Shell India Chairman gets Asian Business Leader Global Award May 20, 2011 Vikram Singh Mehta, Shell India Chairman, will today receive the first Asian Business Leader Award presented by Asia House – Europe’s leading pan-Asian organisation – at an event in London. Shell Lubricants reiterates focus in Eastern India Sep 09, 2010 Hosts Global Technology Forum in Kolkata Shell Foundation – creating new supply chains in the market Mar 20, 2010 Shell Foundation’s Trading Up programme unlocks markets for developing country producers by providing seed capital, business mentoring and strategic partnerships with major retailers to create sustainable supply-chains Winner announced for the Shell-partnered “Debating Matters” championship by British Council Jan 16, 2010 Delhi Public School Megacity Kolkata wins the “Debating Matters” championship Shell India Chairman gets Asian Business Leader Global Award May 20, 2011 Vikram Singh Mehta, Shell India Chairman, will today receive the first Asian Business Leader Award presented by Asia House – Europe’s leading pan-Asian organisation – at an event in London. In recognition for his leadership and contribution to business in Asia, Vikram Singh Mehta, Chairman, Shell Companies in India will be the recipient of the first Asian Business Leader Award by “Asia House’ – the leading pan-Asian organization in Europe at a dinner in London on October 14th. The other recipients of the awards are Stephen Green, the Ex Chairman of HSBC and currently the Minister of Trade in the UK government and Jack Ma, Chairman and CEO of the Alibaba group. ‘It is humbling to be recognized along with people who have led major global corporation and have made a significant contribution to world economics by a strong focus on the triple bottom line. I am of course proud to represent my country at these awards and I deeply appreciate the support of colleagues at Shell worldwide for our mission in India’ said Vikram Singh Mehta on hearing of the honour being conferred. Vikram has led Royal Dutch Shell in India since its return to the country in 1993 and is credited with having led the global oil and gas leader to becoming the largest and most diversified international investor in India’s energy sector. Vikram’s background comprises an educational history of excellence at Mayo College, St. Stephen’s College (Delhi University), Magdalen College, (Oxford University) and the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy (Tufts University). He joined the Indian Administrative Service but left after two years to join private industry in the petroleum industry. He returned to government as an Advisor to the Indian Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas for a four year period before going back into private industry with Shell where based out of London he was shareholder representative on the boards of Shell Companies in South Asia and Middle East (Gulf plus Saudi). In 1993 he spearheaded the return of Royal Dutch Shell to India. He is currently on the boards of various companies, charities and educational institutions. A prolific writer, he has written a monthly column for over a decade for leading national dailies and is also published in many other papers and magazines besides being a regular commentator on various television channels on the economy. He is currently also the petroleum sector chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry, India’s leading business association. Shell Lubricants reiterates focus in Eastern India Sep 09, 2010 Hosts Global Technology Forum in Kolkata Shell Lubricants will host its First Technology Forum for Industrials in Kolkata on September 10, 2010 to showcase its Lubricant Technology Expertise. As the global market share leader in finished lubricants, Shell lubricants sees great market potential in East India. This is because of the diverse business opportunities the region provides for a wide portfolio of lubricants across fast-growing industries like general manufacturing, construction, metals, mining, power and automobile sectors. According to Mr. Donald Anderson, Country Head – Lubricants, Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd., “India is one of the largest lubricant markets in the world with approximate market size of 1.7 billion litres (according to various industry sources). With economy back on track and being driven by a renewed focus on infrastructure, Shell Lubricants is keen to capitalise on this growth. There is also a huge untapped, emerging market, especially in the Eastern states of India, which is of great interest to Shell Lubricants.” According to a CII McKinsey Report titled “Turning the minerals and metals potential of eastern India into a gold mine”, the eastern states of India like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Orissa have the potential to unleash an unprecedented economic boom with metals and minerals contributing nearly 46% of the growth. Shell recognizes the importance of cutting-edge technology in helping industries reduce downtime and maintenance costs while improving fuel and energy efficiency. The Shell Group invested over $1.1 billion globally in research and development in 2009. he The company’s commitment to research and development reflects that it is well placed to introduce the next generation of world-leading lubricants. Shell’s range of lubricants includes hydraulic oils, industrial gear oils, greases, air compressor oil, heavy duty diesel engine and gear oils, passenger car motor oils, motorcycle oils and others. “Our commitment to technology and innovation continues to be at the core of our global strategy. We believe our technologies and global technical expertise will be critical growth drivers for our business. Hosting Shell Lubricants Technology Forum in Kolkata this year, is aimed at strengthening our association with different industries in this region,” added Mr. Donald Anderson, Country Head – Lubricants, Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. Shell Lubricants works with original equipment manufacturers to draw upon its technical knowledge and expertise to deliver a range of heavy duty lubricant products, business services and maintenance solutions that can add real value to businesses. Shell Lubricants supplies lubricants to some leading automotive and industrial companies like Hyundai, Maruti Suzuki, Ford, Wartsila, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Flender, Eaton, Bosch, Delphi, Hitachi and others. Mr. David Curro, Group Manager East - Lubricants Technology, Shell Lubricants said, “Lubricants play a vital role in every industry for efficient manufacturing and trouble-free operation. Through this technology forum we hope to demonstrate the tremendous impact lubricants technology has in optimising business performance across sectors. For instance, many mining operations have the potential to cut costs by improving maintenance practices. At a platinum mine, one company reports saving $1.4 million in a year by using the Shell LubeAnalyst oil and equipment condition monitoring service. The service is helping the company to focus on continual improvement of its maintenance practices. Even in the construction sector, on-time and within budget delivery of critical projects demands maximising availability of construction equipment that are operating to the best performance levels. This is exactly where Shell Lubricants helps”. According to Kline & Company,(use same info as in the note below, we cannot say a study by) Shell Lubricants secured the top spot as the global market share leader, supplying 13% of all finished lubricants in 2008. Shell Lubricant has a rapidly expanding business in India with a state-of-the-art blending plant in Taloja outside Mumbai and distribution facilities across India Shell Foundation – creating new supply chains in the market Mar 20, 2010 Shell Foundation’s Trading Up programme unlocks markets for developing country producers by providing seed capital, business mentoring and strategic partnerships with major retailers to create sustainable supply-chains Intending to link the small and marginal cotton farmers in India directly with the international retail brands, Shell Foundation is looking to create an ethical agent who will act as a bridge between the poor farmers and multinational retailers. The foundation conducted a joint report with Marks & Spencer called “Fresh : Creating New Pathways to Ethical Sourcing” based on which it concluded that it was possible to create new supply chains in the market, according to Anuradha Bhavnani, Programme Director, India, Shell Foundation (SF). FOCUS : INDIA This commercial intermediary, by bridging the gap between the producers and retailers, would be able to reduce poverty at the farm level and deliver commercial returns to retailers, she said. The focus of this new organization would initially be India. Last year, the foundation conducted a market research gauging the response and feedback of more than 25 leading retailers globally. The demand of organic cotton was found to be far more than the supply, with visible gaps in the market. “Retailer demand is there, especially for innovative products or those with ethical and green credentials. Retailers, however, often lack the ability to reliably source the quality products at the scale they require,” she said. The ethical agent would not be a charitable institute but an enterprise-based on delivering the triple bottom-line of social, environmental and financial sustenance. “Shell Foundation’s Trading Up programme unlocks markets for developing country producers by providing see capital, business mentoring and strategic partnerships with major retailers to create sustainable supply-chains. The idea of an ethical agent is sustainable, self-financing and replicable over time. In India SF has been partnering Agrocel and has converted 50,000 farmers from chemical intensive to more sustainable and organic farming. Marks & Spencer became the first high street retailer to sell Fair-trade cotton garments sourced from Agrocel. With a total investment of $10 million in India, the SF is present in 10 states. It often uses the resource, knowledge, brand and infrastructure (As printed in the Hindu Business Line) DISCOVER MORE Shell Foundation in India Learn more about the Shell Foundation programmes in India Shell Foundation India Winner announced for the Shell-partnered “Debating Matters” championship by British Council Jan 16, 2010 Delhi Public School Megacity Kolkata wins the “Debating Matters” championship The winners of Debating Matters India competition are Delhi Public School Megacity, Kolkata. They competed against Symbiosis society of arts and commerce, Pune who were runners-up at the National Finals. The two teams debated on the motion “Alternative medicine should be embraced as an essential part of healthcare in India” Debating Matters is a debate competition for high school students in India. The competition consists of three stages; the online elimination test, the regional finals and the national finals. It is open to students of Class XI and XII of Indian Schools. Debating Matters is very different from traditional schools’ debate competitions in India. The emphasis is entirely on content of the argument rather than style and diction. The format aims to engage students in debating the complexities of real world issues, like free speech, clinical trials, role of pluralism and diversity in India. News and Media Releases 2009Media releases published in 2009 by Shell in India Shell Lubes demonstrates Technology Leadership May 06, 2009 Shell – not just the world’s No 1 lubricant supplier Shell Lubricants Launches Product PLUS Service Portfolio in India Mar 18, 2009 Introduces popular web-based tool, Shell LubeMatch Shell Lubes demonstrates Technology Leadership May 06, 2009 Shell – not just the world’s No 1 lubricant supplier Shell Lubricants, the global market share leader in finished lubricants, hosted a global technology forum in Mumbai this week to showcase the latest lubricants technology to India’s leading vehicle manufacturers. Guests including Mahindra & Mahindra, Tata’s and others learnt about the latest advances in lubricants technology and how Shell products and services can deliver real competitive advantage. They were also introduced to Shell Lubricants unique approach to leading-edge product development. Andrew Foulds, head of Shell Lubricants Technology, said: “Lubricants play a vital role in efficient vehicle manufacturing and trouble-free vehicle operation, and as the global market share leader in lubricants, we believe we have a great deal to offer." "For example, we have more technical experts working side by side with customers in the field than any other lubricants company. We have world-class scientists applying fundamental science to design the best products for our customers’ needs. And we have skilled formulators who have the expertise to find the best possible base oil and additive combinations to deliver the desired properties. The result is breakthrough products that have been rigorously tested to deliver proven benefits.” Guests at the forum were also introduced to some exciting concepts in enhancing vehicle performance – including energy efficiency. The latest Shell motor oils, for example, have low-viscosity, friction-reducing formulations that improve engine efficiency for better fuel economy and reduced CO2 emissions. For heavy-duty vehicles, Shell has developed Shell Rimula R6 LME which pushes new technical boundaries to yield triple benefits: lower fuel bills, reduced emissions, extended oil drain intervals that mean reduced maintenance and less waste oil. Donald Anderson, Country Head of Lubricants, Shell India, said: “This technology forum is a vital opportunity for us to deepen our relationships with India’s vehicle manufacturers and to find out how we can best help them. India’s increasing vehicle population makes it one of fastest growing lubricants markets in the world – and we want to be a part of that. Our aim has always been not just to provide products that work, but to deliver technically advanced products that meet changing customer, operational and legislative needs better and faster than the competition." "Through this technology forum we wanted to demonstrate that our lubricants technology is truly differentiating and that we can be the technical partner of choice for vehicle manufacturers in India.” Shell has a history of lubricants innovation stretching back more than 70 years. For example: In the 1960s Shell was the first to launch multi-grade engine oil for use in all vehicles in all seasons. In the 1970s Shell pioneered the use of detergents in vehicle oils to help keep engines clean. In the 1980s we introduced Shell XHVI synthetic base oils, using unique wax isomerisation technology. XHVI base oils are used to formulate high performance synthetic lubricants. In the 1990s, Shell was first to market with a ‘low SAPS’ engine oil, with lower levels of Sulphated Ash, Phosphorous and Sulphur. Using low SAPS oils can help to reduce diesel exhaust emissions, by protecting after-treatment devices such as diesel particulate traps. Shell has a rapidly expanding lubricants business in India with a state-of-the-art blending plant outside Mumbai and distribution facilities in every state. Shell Lubricants Launches Product PLUS Service Portfolio in India Mar 18, 2009 Introduces popular web-based tool, Shell LubeMatch Shell Lubricants, the global market share leader in finished lubricants, unveiled a new range of Product PLUS Services. Shell recognises that simply supplying high quality lubricants is not always enough to give its customers a clear competitive advantage and has developed this range of services aimed at helping customers get the best from Shell products. In practice this means, customers get the best performance, fuel economy, extended maintenance intervals, reduced maintenance and can even prevent failures. This ultimately saves money and brings a competitive advantage for them. Introducing the service portfolio in India, Donald Anderson, Country Head - Lubricants, Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. stated, "The launch of the Product Plus service portfolio reinforces our strong commitment to providing value to our customers. Shell has been a global frontrunner in the lubricants industry in providing customers products with state-of-the-art technologies and innovative as well as effective services. We are determined to bring to our customers in India the same success drivers to enable them to experience their benefits." Shell's Product PLUS portfolio has a wide range of services to meet the needs of B2C and B2B customers in India. Some of the services included in the portfolio are Shell LubeAnalyst, , Shell LubeAdvisor , Shell LubeClinic, Shell LubeCoach, Shell LubeExpert and Shell LubeVideoCheck, with the latest addition to the family, Shell LubeMatch. This web based tool is designed to help customers match their vehicles and engines to the correct lubricants, whether in the commercial vehicle, industrial or off-road sectors. The website, www.shell.com/lubematch/ is simple to use with drop down menus and provides recommendations for the right Lubricants for your equipment or vehicle within seconds. Mark Raynes, Shell's Global Services Manager comments, "We have had a tremendous response to the launch of our new range of Products PLUS service across the world. For example, the online service Shell LubeMatch has witnessed over 2.5 million users already worldwide. The Shell LubeMatch service, which is available in 94 countries and 19 languages, is one of the most important services to us as it puts information that enables our customers to make the right lubricant decision through a free online tool." "Now finding answers to important lubricants questions is easy! Our services are already demonstrating the value that product can deliver in real life cost savings and improvements for our customers." Shell's Product PLUS helps the valued customers get the best performance and efficiency from Shell products. The company plans to continue investing in new innovative services to help customers realize maximum benefit from Shell's products. The new range of services is already saving significant amount of money for Shell customers around the world: Shell LubeAnalyst Saves an impressive $600,778 on lost product in a steel Plant in India. Saves Anglo American mining $1.6 million in reduced maintenance costs and downtime in South Africa. Saves $134,894 in reduced maintenance and downtime at a large paper mill in the Czech Republic. Shell saves $80,000 in its own Stanlow refinery by preventing failures and reducing downtime. Shell LubeVideocheck Shell prevents a major engine failure in a large opencast mining company in India saving $2,500. Reduces downtime significantly at Enviritech solution a power generation company in South Africa saving $80,000. The key services bring Online Lubrication recommendations; field based technical expertise and practical tools to monitor performance of lubricants whilst in service. Brought to life by the team of industry's strongest and the most competent local technical experts, these services have been designed to help customers realise real improvements to their vehicles and equipment. Shell in the news India to be key destination for energy transition gear in 5 years, says Shell's Huibert Vigeveno Mar 30, 2023 Huibert Vigeveno, Downstream and Renewables Director explains Shell’s Powering Progress strategy and how India will become an important destination for sourcing energy transition equipments in future. Shell’s Pratibha Priyadarshini on why diversity and inclusion in the energy sector is crucial for energy transition Mar 27, 2023 Pratibha Priyadarshini VP and Head of HR, discusses about how diversity and inclusion will be instrumental for a successful energy transition. In conversation with Nakul Raheja, Country Head, Shell Energy India Mar 23, 2023 Watch this insightful interview with Nakul Raheja, Country Head of Shell Energy India, to learn more about India's energy landscape, the challenges, opportunities and solutions for the way forward, and Shell's vision for a sustainable future. The Hindu BusinessLine | Shell Café debuts in India; opens sit-down restaurant in Bengaluru Feb 03, 2023 Istvan Kapitany Global Executive Vice President, Shell highlights about company's strategic plans to transform the fuel retail business in India and integrated value propositions for customers. The Hindu BusinessLine | Helping hand. Moving LNG on wheels for small scale users Nov 27, 2022 Shell Energy’s truck loading of LNG improves access to clean energy for off-grid industries Shell Energy’s truck loading of LNG improves access to clean energy for off-grid industries The Hindu BusinessLine | Shell E4 Program eyes investment in deep tech start-ups in energy and mobility space Nov 19, 2022 Shell’s flagship start-up incubation programme, Shell E4 program, has expanded its investment themes to include deep tech companies working in energy and mobility space, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India told businessline. MINT | ‘Need more contingency in PPA pricing for solar power amid rising costs’ Oct 13, 2022 Shell’s Global Renewable Generation EVP Thomas Brostrom & Nitin Prasad, chairman of Shell Companies in India, talks about the acquisition of Actis Llp’s Indian renewable energy platform Sprng Energy by Shell. Times of India | Shell Lubricants doubling down on India: Expands B2C services, sustainable products, and data centre hold Aug 16, 2022 Shell Lubricants global executive vice-president Machteld De Haan talks about expansion plans for India and new opportunities in the market for the Shell Lubricants business. MINT | Shell Lubricants to Sell EV battery coolants in India Aug 08, 2022 Shell Lubricants global executive vice-president Machteld De Haan, and India head, Debanjali Sengupta, speak about Shell's diversification plans and how we are looking to become a global lubricant and fluid solutions company, shifting beyond its original focus only on lubricants. Shell to set up LNG stations, bullish on gas market in India Apr 10, 2022 Global energy giant Shell will foray into retailing LNG for long-haul transportation like trucks, with its first filling station coming up in Gujarat this year as it bets big on the Indian gas market, a senior company official said. As an HR Head, you cannot divorce understanding of the business and do your job: Pratibha Priyadarshini Mar 23, 2022 In an interview with ETHRWorld, Pratibha Priyadarshini – VP – HR, Shell India, talks about how the company is leveraging technology to streamline its HR processes, the senior leadership commitment towards diversity & inclusion, and the future of work. This is a year that no vision statement prepared the humanity for Jun 02, 2020 If we can’t bring people to the workplace, we must find ways to bring the workplace to them, says Tarun Varma, Vice President - HR, Shell India. Royal Dutch Shell wants GST on natural gas Feb 25, 2019 GST on natural gas will make transport of the fuel across India efficient, says Shell Energy Asia VP Ajay Shah Shell owns the 5 million metric tonne Hazira LNG terminal in Gujarat and is also present in fuel retailing Access to pipelines a key issue in unlocking India’s natural gas potential. Feb 25, 2019 Shah told ETEnergyWorld that the company’s 5 Million Tonne Per Annum (MMTPA) Hazira LNG terminal plans to have a truck loading unit which will allow transportation of natural gas through trucks and the facility can also be used to fuel heavy-duty vehicles run on natural gas. C-Suite Asia: Retail oil push, EV infrastructure feature in Shell's India growth ambitions Jun 05, 2018 Singapore (Platts) - India's sweeping reforms in the oil sector, its insatiable appetite for fuel and an urgency to embrace new forms of energy provided Shell with the ideal platform for growth in one of Asia's fastest growing markets, country CEO Nitin Prasad said last Friday. We are at the top globally, our ambition is to become no.1 in India May 01, 2018 Despite the competition from price-sensitive regional players and dominant PSUs, Shell India has grown at a CAGR of 20% in the last 5 years, and with aggressive expansion plans the momentum will continue in the coming years, Mansi Tripathy, managing director, Shell India Markets, told Vikas Srivastava during an exclusive interview. Shell India launches fully synthetic Helix HX8 engine oil Apr 27, 2018 Royal Dutch Shell subsidiary Shell Lubricants' Indian arm on Monday launched its fully synthetic engine oil - Shell Helix HX8 - saying it is suitable for all cars in the country including SUVs, hatchbacks, sedans and MUVs. We are at the top globally, our ambition is to become no.1 in India May 01, 2018 Despite the competition from price-sensitive regional players and dominant PSUs, Shell India has grown at a CAGR of 20% in the last 5 years, and with aggressive expansion plans the momentum will continue in the coming years, Mansi Tripathy, managing director, Shell India Markets, told Vikas Srivastava during an exclusive interview. Excerpts: With continued dominance of PSUs and entry of new players, how does Shell plan to grow in lubricants? It’s at the core of what we debate every day. However, we feel we have our strengths in three areas. First, we always ask what is there for customers. It’s in our DNA to question if we are servicing their needs or not, whether we are impacting them with right products, and if the products have right carbon footprints. We are not always stuck on financials. It’s my personal belief that if we focus on what’s right, the financials will come along. Second is our technology. Globally, we spend around $1 billion on our R&D, which is much higher than any competitor. We have invested in technologies like flexibonds, gas-to-liquids and we have close to 1,300 patents in our name. We are working on technologies that are going to come in five years. We have always performed better than our competitors in all our field trials. Third, our focus is on people, their capability and our systems. We believe in growing talent. We are focussing on growing India as a talent hub and are investing a lot on that. It will give us a lot of edge vis-a-vis competition. Shell has been present in India for 70 years, but has only 5% market share. Is this going to change? For the majority of 70 years, the company was under a joint venture partnership, which had a lot of terms and conditions about what can be done or not. If that’s kept aside, in the last 5-6 years we have grown from strength to strength. From a low 2% market share we are now 5%, which is pretty sizeable in terms of where we want to be. That’s on the volume part. If we look at the internals such as processes, systems, customer satisfaction and revenue streams, they have improved dramatically too. Also, we never look at ourselves as transaction suppliers, but how we work closely with OEMs and end customers to optimise their total cost of ownership. We have seen the approach improve our relationship with customers in the last 5 years. This momentum will continue. Our ambition is: We are number one globally, and nothing will stop us from becoming number one in India as well. Will competitive pricing pressure hurt your margins as you grow in India? Our strategic intent is to provide the best product at a price point. For a fleet operator we may not recommend a synthetic product if it’s not required. However, we believe with CO2 legislation, there is a steer towards optimisation of energy and fuel usage, not only in automotive space but in industry space as well. That is where we see lubricants play an important role in reducing friction and reducing fuel consumption, correspondingly reducing CO2 emissions. The future is all about moving into fuel efficient and energy efficient products, hence pricing would be need driven. You said the industry will shift to synthetic lubricants. How much of your portfolio is synthetic and how soon will this shift happen? Currently, 13% of our business is synthetic, up from 6% three years ago. In comparison, the Indian market is only 5% synthetic. In future we would want to lead in synthetic business across all categories. However, a lot will depend on consumer awareness and orientation. Markets like Russia are 78% synthetic, China 27%, while European markets are between 40% and 42% synthetic. We believe as India’s economy and GDP grow, affluence will come through, pushing the entire trajectory towards synthetic. What’s your current lubricant output in India? Are there any plans to expand? The growth rate in the last few years has been around 20% and we expect this to continue as we aggressively plan to expand our business in India. At present, our production is around 150 million litres, and we expect it to rise by 20% in coming years too. We also plan to take our total fuel retail outlets from 100 to 1,000 in the next few years. Source: Financial Express Shell India launches fully synthetic Helix HX8 engine oil Apr 27, 2018 Royal Dutch Shell subsidiary Shell Lubricants' Indian arm on Monday launched its fully synthetic engine oil - Shell Helix HX8 - saying it is suitable for all cars in the country including SUVs, hatchbacks, sedans and MUVs. The Anglo-Dutch oil major said in a statement here that the product offers multiple benefits for drivers. "Shell Helix HX8 forms protective barriers around critical and high-risk engine parts, providing 40 per cent better wear and 78 per cent better corrosion protection as well as 58 per cent better oxidation stability and high-temperature deposit control versus industry reference oil," it said. The synthetic engine oil, priced at Rs 850 per litre, is available across India in packs of 4.5 litres, 3.5 litres and 1 litre. Launching the new product here, Shell Lubricants Country General Manager Mansi Tripathy, said: "The engine is the heart of a vehicle and needs to be protected by right engine oil for better performance, longer life and, above all, ensuring a smooth drive." "With Shell Helix HX8, we will be able to cater to the changing demand of the consumers, expand our portfolio and strengthen our commitment to the Indian market," she added. Source: Business Standard C-Suite Asia: Retail oil push, EV infrastructure feature in Shell's India growth ambitions Jun 05, 2018 Singapore (Platts) - India's sweeping reforms in the oil sector, its insatiable appetite for fuel and an urgency to embrace new forms of energy provided Shell with the ideal platform for growth in one of Asia's fastest growing markets, country CEO Nitin Prasad said last Friday. Shell India was aiming to not only grow its retail oil network and lubricants business, but also embrace new energy initiatives such as biofuels, and building energy storage systems and infrastructure for electric vehicles, Prasad said in an exclusive interview. "We have ambitious growth goals for India and aspire to make India one of Shell's top markets in the coming years as we bring cleaner energy to power the country's progress," Prasad said. When Yasmine Hilton ended her assignment as the chairman of Shell companies in India in 2016, Prasad -- who was then 38 and heading the lubricant business in India -- was chosen to lead the company, making him one of the youngest oil and gas CEOs in India. Shell has around 100 retail fuel stations and plans to open more retail outlets, joining other private companies such as Reliance Industries and Nayara Energy, which are also firming up strategies to grab a share of the retail oil market. "We aim to expand our fuel retail network to 1,200 by 2027. India is one of the top five growth markets for Shell lubricants globally and is on an accelerated growth path," Prasad said. Regarding other energy initiatives, Prasad said that the recently released biofuels policy had strengthened the conviction that India could meet its goal of increasing its share of non-fossil fuels in its energy mix. The Indian government in May approved a new national biofuels policy that permits the use of excess crops and a wider pool of inputs for biofuel production. The policy includes a classification system that defines first-, second- and third-generation biofuels and details the incentives for producing each grade as well as the support available for domestic crop farmers. "The area of biofuels is an exciting opportunity in India," Prasad said, adding that the country had been pushing new energy sources, and that high oil prices would accelerate this development. "For example, accelerating the adoption of new biofuel technology and focusing on fuel efficiency is a sustainable but long-term solution for absorbing the impact of international price fluctuations in the Indian context," he said. Prasad said that the recently set up Shell Energy India, which would initially focus on increasing its share in the downstream gas and LNG business, but would eventually look at expanding as an energy marketing and trading company. "With the government's focus on increasing the share of natural gas to 15% in the energy mix, we see a huge potential for LNG. It could be an economically and environmentally viable option to provide cleaner energy solutions, be it for transportation or powering up homes and businesses," he said. In December 2017, Shell launched Shell E4, a program for startups focused on cleaner and sustainable energy solutions. The company is also working on solutions for energy storage systems and infrastructure for electric vehicles. Shell recently invested in Husk Power Systems -- a mini-grid company operating in the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh -- using hybrid solar PV and biomass gasification solution to provide reliable and affordable electricity to customers, he said. Prasad added that the Indian government had a key role in helping Shell further the development and deployment of a waste-to-fuel technology that converts non-food biomass feedstock such as wood, agricultural residue, algae, aquatic plants and cellulosic fractions of municipal waste into fuel. "This can prove to be a win-win solution to address India's twin issues of waste management and need for more and cleaner energy solutions," he added. Policy reforms Highlighting the need for additional reforms, Prasad said that India's policy needed to ensure that more gas flowed into the power sector. In addition, there was a need to bring oil and gas under the goods and services tax structure. "On a positive note, it is good to see the government's commitment to develop trunk pipeline infrastructure, with viability gap funding support for expansion of the grid to the eastern part of the country, as well as set up a gas trading hub to aid better price discovery of natural gas," he said. "We also appreciate the government's decision to deregulate fuel prices at the retail level and look forward to oil and gas being considered for GST," he added. The government recently announced that it was working on a plan to unbundle marketing and transportation of gas in the country. "Combined with natural gas trading hubs, the unbundling will go a long way in developing a deep and liquid gas market in India and increase the share of natural gas in the overall energy basket. Additionally, for gas markets to grow, a level playing field needs to be created for all players," he added. Shell was pushing some initiatives to contribute to the gas market in India, Prasad said, adding that it was expanding its gas supply chain through its Hazira plant. "We have also committed to begin truck loading operations at the Hazira terminal. Today, Shell serves a significant portion of the country's gas consumption through LNG," he said. Highlighting a joint study by Shell, The Energy Research Institute of India, and the Centre for Energy, Environment and Water, Prasad said that in a plausible scenario of average 6% GDP growth, primary energy demand by 2051 was likely to reach 2,800 million mt of oil equivalent, from less than 700 million mtoe in 2016. "With regard to the country's energy mix, coal has a dominant position at 58%. Around 75% of the country's power requirements are fulfilled by coal-based plants. This legacy is expected to maintain the dominance of coal for next 30 years or so," he added. Source: Platts Access to pipelines a key issue in unlocking India’s natural gas potential. Feb 25, 2019 Shah told ETEnergyWorld that the company’s 5 Million Tonne Per Annum (MMTPA) Hazira LNG terminal plans to have a truck loading unit which will allow transportation of natural gas through trucks and the facility can also be used to fuel heavy-duty vehicles run on natural gas. Shell Energy Asia VP Ajay Shah speaks to ETEnergyWorld New Delhi: India will have to address key issues pertaining to access to natural gas pipelines and ensure a level-playing field by including natural gas into the ambit of Goods and Service Tax (GST) if it wants to unlock the country’s natural gas potential, Ajay Shah, Vice President, Shell Energy Asia told ETEnergyWorld. “Countries like US and Europe were able to increase the use of natural gas in their overall energy mix primarily due to unbundling of natural gas marketing and transportation services. While India does have open access to its pipeline and a regulator in place the practical reality is it is difficult to access natural gas pipeline infrastructure for a variety of reasons,” Shah said in an interview. He added that the company was a bit disappointed because natural gas was being left out of the ambit of GST. According to Shell’s Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) outlook 2019, India’s natural gas share in the overall energy mix will remain between 5-10 per cent by 2035. The projection made have been an interpretation of Wood Mackenzie’s data, the company said. Shah told ETEnergyWorld that the company’s 5 Million Tonne Per Annum (MMTPA) Hazira LNG terminal plans to have a truck loading unit which will allow transportation of natural gas through trucks and the facility can also be used to fuel heavy-duty vehicles run on natural gas. Shell had last month acquired 26 per cent equity interest in the Hazira LNG and Port from Total. According to data available on Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC), Hazira LNG recorded a capacity utilization of 87.6 per cent in the April-January period of 2018-2019 “We are excited about our journey in India. We may in the future think about expanding our Hazira terminal. We may also in the coming years choose to invest in India’s City Gas Distribution (CGD) network, get into gas-based electricity generation and are also eyeing the possibilities in using natural gas in the transportation sector. Petronet has already started a project for setting up LNG fuel stations across the country, which is a good move,” Shah said. Shah said that while China currently has over 300,000 heavy-duty vehicles running on natural gas and is taking big strides towards the use of natural gas in the transportation sector, India currently has none. China currently uses 6.7 Million Tonne of LNG for road transport and has close to 2,552 LNG fuel stations across the country. According to Shell, LNG’s share of India’s total gas supply mix exceeded 50 per cent for the first time in 2018. “India is also using LNG to meet its increasing needs for a secure energy supply. Domestic gas production dropped and the resulting increase in demand for imported gas was met by LNG (up 10% year on year). LNG’s share of India’s total gas supply mix exceeded 50% for the first time in 2018,” the report read. It adds that in 2019, 35 million tonnes of additional LNG supply is expected to come on line with Europe and Asia being the major demand centres for the additional supply. According to the report, more than 70 per cent of energy demand growth by 2035 is estimated to be met by gas and renewables combined, with natural gas supplying more than 40 per cent of the additional demand and major LNG importing countries like China and India are putting policies in place which drive preference for gas over coal. As appeared in article written by Bilal Abdi (ETEnergyWorld) Source: ETEnergyWorld Royal Dutch Shell wants GST on natural gas Feb 25, 2019 Shell Energy Asia VP Ajay Shah speaks to LiveMint Mumbai: Royal Dutch Shell Plc wants India to bring natural gas under the goods and services tax (GST) to make transport of the fuel across the country more efficient. "An element that would make transport (of natural gas) across the country more efficient is the inclusion of natural gas in the GST. We will be very supportive of that," said Ajay Shah, vice president, Shell Energy Asia. Shah spoke to Mint after the release of Shell's LNG outlook 2019 today. Shell owns the 5 million metric tonne Hazira liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal in Gujarat and is also present in fuel retailing. "We see great prospects in India. We also want to be more involved in the Indian market. We think an open market is very very important. And a prerequisite to India's natural gas hub is access to a level playing field," added Shah. Shell predicts that India and China can double their LNG import infrastructure in five years and will be the prominent drivers of natural gas demand. “India is also using LNG to meet its increasing needs for secure energy supply. Domestic gas production dropped and the resulting increase in demand for imported gas was met by LNG (up 10%, year on year). LNG’s share of India’s total gas supply mix exceeded 50% for the first time in 2018," the Shell LNG Outlook 2019 said. According to the outlook, China, India, South Korea and Pakistan led LNG demand growth in 2018. Commenting on the drivers of demand in India, Steve Hill, executive vice-president, Shell Energy Asia, said, “The expansion of terminals in Dahej, Ennore, Mundra, and Hazira will be infrastructure projects that can channel this demand in the coming five years." Hill added that with the US, Canada, Mozambique and Russia boosting their natural gas production, these countries may be sources from where this demand can be met. The significantly large driver of LNG demand globally has been China. “Ongoing efforts to improve urban air quality saw China’s imports of LNG surge by 16 million tonnes in 2018, up by 40% from 2017," a press statement from Shell said. "We saw Asian LNG demand growth exceed expectations again in 2018 and we expect this strong growth to continue. Investment in new supply projects is picking up, but more will be needed soon." From 2014 through 2017, LNG buyers had increasingly been looking to sign shorter, smaller and more flexible contracts. Shell warned in its 2018 LNG outlook that this mismatch between supplier and buyer needs would have to be resolved to enable developers to go ahead with new projects. As appeared in article written by: Kalpana Pathak (LiveMint) Source: LiveMint This is a year that no vision statement prepared the humanity for Jun 02, 2020 If we can’t bring people to the workplace, we must find ways to bring the workplace to them, says Tarun Varma, Vice President - HR, Shell India. Over the course of the nationwide lockdown, we have seen significant impacts on the energy systems and broadly on the energy sector. In an interaction with ETHRWorld, Tarun Varma, Vice President - HR, Shell India, shares how the energy organisation ensured the essential services were operational for serving their customer community during such a testing time. Edited excerpts: How has the Covid-19 crisis impacted your organization? What steps have you taken to keep the employees’ morale high in this scenario? This is a year that no vision statement prepared the humanity for. Having learnt from the real-life experiences of our colleagues in China, we in Shell India set up a central monitoring team in early February. The fact that we have a health team, as a part of our organization, which consists of doctors and health specialists, was a blessing during these challenging times. This team did a thorough assessment of the risks of exposure and issued clear guidelines on personal hygiene and social distancing for our 12,000 people working across offices, retail sites, markets, laboratories, and factories, to stay alert to symptoms. Our primary focus was on care for our colleagues, customers and communities. We instilled mandatory work from home for all office-based staff and stopped business travel inside and outside of India to minimize exposure. However, since we are in the business of energy, an essential service provider, our plants continued to operate with a skeletal staff and all our fuel stations had to be up and running. We implemented strong visitor management protocols, frequent health symptom checks, availability of hand sanitizers and increased frequency of housekeeping along with sanitization of office areas and deep cleaning where required. We had to ensure that our staff and contractors, who were braving the odds to keep the systems up and running, felt safe in their work environment. How challenging has it been to restructure your workforce policies to address the current pandemic-driven work situations? Given our employee value proposition and the culture evidenced at Shell, we did not undertake any significant restructuring of policies. Instead, we aimed at acknowledging the concerns of our people at an individual level. We set up platforms to connect with more than 2,000 team leaders (global and local) who have team members based across India. The outcome of their efforts helped us appreciate the various and unique contexts that our people are in, and how we could respond as an organization. This prompted the country leadership to put in motion a three-pillared approach for supporting our people and keeping their morale high. As the lockdown set, we mandated Work from Home and implemented the first pillar on infrastructural support. The second pillar focused on care for individuals (physical, emotional & social). The need of the hour benefits such as telemedicine facilities, counselling services and medical insurance was made available for our employees and their family members. The third pillar focused on keeping all our people connected as one big virtual community, at the local and global level. How has been the experience so far with people working from home? As the nationwide lockdown set in, we set up platforms to engage with our people through multiple channels including an All India Webcast to better understand their experience of a mandatory WFH. We had colleagues adjusting to working amidst a joint family at home, those who had to leave their paying guest accommodation and find a means to travel to their native place. We listened to how a colleague had to balance preparations for lunch right before an important team call. We heard the voices of those who are eager to return to office as they miss the actual presence of a team, as well as feel a lack of belonging while being on virtual team calls. As the lockdown extended, we kept listening and repurposing our existing offerings to address the physical, emotional and infrastructural needs of a mandatory work from home scenario. This seems to have built due to traction with our people who share their appreciation around our flexible working guidelines, provision of EAP (Employee Assistance Programmes), telemedicine support to employees' family members, clarification of the company insurance programmes, as also the extension of employee leave balances till the year-end given the travel restrictions that came into force just as families were planning their summer holidays. In fact, this mandatory lockdown period has also unlocked the hidden talents in many of our people, such as, one of our IT engineers, who is wheelchair-bound, took the initiative to get his hands onto cooking whilst spreading his radiant positivity among the rest of us. I can clearly say that while we work from home in a socially distanced manner, we have clearly become a virtually proximate organization. How critical is the role of technology in the HR domain today? As a part of the “HR Journey to World Class”, the underpinning HR technology helps reduce the amount of administrative work, optimizes workforce management and also helps make better decisions, ultimately improving employee experience. Globally, as a part of the HR Journey to World Class, we are moving from fragmented HR tools to Workday, a new age SaaS-based HR suite of technology offerings with full functionality in place, over the next couple of years. What are the latest HR-related technologies that have been implemented at your organization? In the last few months, I have come to the realization that if we can’t bring people to the workplace, we must find ways to effectively bring their workplace to them. However, for effective virtual connectivity, there is a lot more to learn. For example, almost 60-80% of our non-verbal cues in a physical meeting are processed by our sub-conscious self, but these are constrained to a mere 20-40% in a virtual setting. Hence, while we have incorporated the latest collaboration tools like MS Office 365 or Skype for Business, we are also augmenting the same with support material on topics such as establishing trust and building a human connect. To enable connectedness and smooth cultural immersion into Shell, we would have normally called all the new joiners to a face-to-face workshop in one of our centres. But given the ongoing situation, and the inability to send across IT systems in the midst of a lockdown, our Learning & Development teams worked with IT colleagues and swiftly enabled the DTAO (Desktop anywhere online) application. This helped us onboard our new joiners virtually from across India, and the feedback states the experience to have been immersive and seamless. Senior leaders' video logs have brought awareness to sustainable working style with a focus on blind spots around burnouts, discipline in managing work hours, and being selective about the meetings we attend. How do you balance the need for maintaining a decent retention rate as well as ensuring high productivity? As a country leadership team, my colleagues and I believe in collectively shaping a work environment that prioritizes diversity and inclusion, promotes a culture of open innovation, observes equality for all genders and prioritizes uncompromising focus on ethical behaviour. We aim to accomplish this by working on three key areas - transformational leadership, authenticity and purpose. We focus on developing transformational, collaborative leaders who can manage and lead large teams of motivated, engaged employees and can engage a diverse set of stakeholders effectively both inside and outside of Shell. With employee engagement rates that emerge as top quartile year on year and single-digit attrition, we are committed to fostering a work environment where employees are inspired to bring their whole self to work. Even in the most trying of circumstances like the present, we are leveraging various levers to maintain the financial resilience of the organization and psychological wellbeing of our people without diluting our core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people. It is our belief that employees perform at their best in a culture that’s grounded in values and purpose, and an environment of positivity and respect. What are the three biggest trends emerging in the HR space in the short-term and in the long-term? In my opinion, the biggest trends in HR revolve around people, process and systems. In terms of people, I find a sharper focus of HR professionals on their commercial agility, digital literacy and value-based business partnering. While this may vary across industries in how HR professionals develop themselves, it is definitely gaining appreciation from business leaders who are trying to steer their organizations in a turbulent volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous (VUCA) world. On the process front, the focus is on empowering and equipping team leaders to hone their people skills. And to do so, HR processes are being made to fall lighter on the organization, so that the real value emerges in the actual utilization and the impact of the same. Those HR teams who help team leaders in mastering the art of recruiting, rewarding, recognizing, and coaching, will be the ones whose organizations demonstrate the strongest employee engagement and productivity. With respect to systems, there seem to be a variety of avenues, with cloud-based solutions being the flavour of the season. When we leverage these systems for data-based decision making and strong virtual engagement, it helps us in becoming a more effective organization that is better aligned to its purpose, strategy and execution. As appeared in article written by Baishakhi Dutta (ETHRWorld.com) Source: ETHRWorld.com Shell to set up LNG stations, bullish on gas market in India Apr 10, 2022 Global energy giant Shell will foray into retailing LNG for long-haul transportation like trucks, with its first filling station coming up in Gujarat this year as it bets big on the Indian gas market, a senior company official said. Shell Energy India Country Head Nakul Raheja Speaks with PTI New Delhi: Shell operates a 5 million tonnes a year liquefied natural gas (LNG) import facility at Hazira in Gujarat and has a small network of petrol pumps. It is now looking at the LNG for trucks/buses market as a growth avenue. "We are looking to develop our own LNG sites and retail stations in the country," Nakul Raheja, country head of Shell Energy India, told PTI. "So we are working now on our own expansion plans in this place and if things go to plan, then within this calendar year we should have our first site ready selling LNG as a transport fuel to heavy duty vehicles in the state of Gujarat and we are going to follow that up with a few more sites next year," he added. While the first site is likely to be an exclusive LNG retail outlet, the company may in the future look to co-locate the LNG refuelling facility within petrol pumps. "We are starting off with Gujarat in the vicinity of Hazira. Of course, as a very natural place to first start with around Surat and then logically expand, you know, further into Western India to begin with and then working on plans beyond that," he said, adding the company may have three-four sites in next 12 to 18 months. The government is pushing the use of LNG as fuel for long-haul transportation. It is targeting 50 stations in Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan in next three years and ultimately 1,000 outlets. LNG, which is natural gas super-cooled to liquid form, has much less carbon footprint than diesel. Besides environmental benefits, it is also cheaper on long-haul routes. China consumes 12 to 13 million tonnes of LNG in this segment annually. This is half of all LNG that India imports for use in power plants, fertilizer units, city gas and other industries. "I look at India as being one of the few markets around the world where actually we can replicate the kind of size and scale that China has achieved. Of course, this takes time because you have to start side by side, truck by truck, fleet by fleet, customer by customer. "But if you kind of fast forward 10 or 15 years, you can absolutely get this to become very material. Potentially, double digit million tonnes of LNG by that time frame," he said. Shell will be the first private firm to foray into LNG retailing for long-haul transport. As of now, state-owned oil giants Indian Oil Corporation (20 stations), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Bharat Petroleum Corporation (11 stations each), GAIL India (six stations) and Petronet LNG (two stations) have announced LNG stations. LNG for long-haul transportation is part of the government's plan to raise the share of natural gas in the primary energy basket to 15 per cent by 2030 from the current 6.7 per cent. Raheja said to reach 15 per cent share, gas consumption has to grow to 500 million standard cubic metres per day from current 161 mmscmd. With domestic production of gas barely meeting half of the current consumption, import of gas in the form of LNG will have to grow. "We are projecting India to be one of the fastest growing markets for LNG in the world. We are seeing nearly 35 to 40 million tonnes of LNG demand growth in India alone in the period between 2020 to 2040," he said. Asked about expansion plans for Hazira, he said there is room to expand the capacity depending on market growth. "But again we think about expansion in a very linear sense. After we bought out Total's (26 per cent) stake at Hazira (LNG terminal) about three years ago, one of the first investment decisions we made was to set up a truck loading unit at Hazira. That has now been operational for more than a year and that has already added more capacity," he said. For the share of natural gas in India's energy basket to grow, the pace of rollout of trunk pipeline infrastructure must continue and the gas must be included in GST. "We need to continue to bring new markets into the fold that includes inter-state transmission, and also potentially intra state transmission infrastructure," he said, adding the city gas distribution network should continue to grow as it will fuel replacement of liquid auto fuels with gas (CNG) and piped cooking gas to household kitchens and industries. "I think there is also a scope for us to kind of create a bit of a national level energy road map as a whole because we are talking about green hydrogen, we are talking about ammonia, we are talking about gas, we are talking about coal, we are talking about number of energy sources and each of them kind of is going to be on their own journey through this energy transition, bringing it all together to then say that, OK, this is the role that gas will play in these different segments. "Again, helps create the confidence for various industry sector participants to make those long term commitments," he said. Natural gas, just like petrol, diesel, ATF and crude oil, is out of the purview of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), which means tax paid on inputs cannot be set off with that on output. Raheja said gas is at a disadvantage to coal and this creates artificial barriers. "You can't create a credit for the tax you pay on gas today for, for example, all of which is kind of completely avoidable. So bringing it under the ambit of GST will make, I think, a big difference in the use of gas in the country." Bringing gas under GST will also make it affordable. "It will also make it more tradable across states and so on. And it will just make the ease of doing business also in this space a lot easier," he noted. "India is an incredibly exciting energy market. We have for the last two decades played an important role in the gas market, in the LNG market in the country and we certainly want to grow along with it. "So as the need and demand for gas grows, we want to play our role in it. So whether it's creating more supply infrastructure, whether it's providing LNG as a transport fuel, all of those areas are certainly of our interest," Raheja added. Source: PTI As an HR Head, you cannot divorce understanding of the business and do your job: Pratibha Priyadarshini Mar 23, 2022 In an interview with ETHRWorld, Pratibha Priyadarshini – VP – HR, Shell India, talks about how the company is leveraging technology to streamline its HR processes, the senior leadership commitment towards diversity & inclusion, and the future of work. “From an HR team of about 40 people in 2018, we are now at 140.” “We want to go Hybrid. But that flexibility of providing the choice to natural pockets of our teams, would remain” Shell, a leading global energy company with presence in over 70 countries, has currently 50 per cent gender diversity on its board globally. At Shell India, women hold 22 per cent of leadership positions across all locations. Understanding the importance of gender balance at the very initial stage of hiring, Shell also has had success with 40 per cent of campus hires being women in 2020. Pratibha Priyadarshini, VP – HR, Shell India, is a passionate and accomplished HR leader with over 19 years of professional experience in multi-cultural and multi-location businesses. She has been working with Shell India for more than 17 years, managing the HR function for Shell's multi sector businesses in India with over 10,000 employees. Priyadarshini has an exceptional expertise in integrating human resources post acquisitions and managing shared service centers locally and globally. She has worked for Shell Finance Shared Services across Europe and Asia in overseeing Change Management, Capability Building, Critical Succession and Talent Management. In an exclusive interview with ETHRWorld, Pratibha Priyadarshini talks about the senior leadership commitment towards diversity & inclusion, women empowerment practices, employee first approach, and other HR strategies being adopted by Shell India to become an innovative energy company. Q1: You were trained as an engineer and then you moved on to the HR profession. How did this transition happen? Why did you choose HR as a profession? I grew up in a South Indian Tamil Brahmin family. The most popular choices we had as children were to either become an engineer or a doctor. I clearly chose the former. However, since I grew up in a joint family set up, I was exposed to the nuances of relationships, empathy, authenticity, and people management at a much deeper level at a much early stage of life. I think it was something I was good at even then and it stayed with me. Initially, HR as a profession wasn't even on the radar for me at that time. I was geared to be an engineer and joined REC Surathkal, now known as NIT college. My first job was with GE selling cardiac Dopplers, after Surathkal. I had a senior in college attending TISS (Tata Institute of Social Sciences) at that time. Through them, I came to know of HR. Then on one of my sales trips of these cardiac Dopplers, I met a lady working for Cisco at that time. She was also a graduate of TISS and with more information from her I got my first foray into HR. Although I did not study HR, the result of that conversation on the train was that she gave me the number of one of India's old veterans in HR. His name is Hari Iyer and at that time he used to be in Sasken. I just went and called Hari on a Monday morning and said I'm quite interested, gave a brief on my background and expressed my interest in HR. In those days, conflict management was in trend. On that thought, I expressed to him my interest in conversing with people, stressing I was unafraid of conflict. By the end of the day, I had a job in HR. When I got married and moved to London, I decided to take a formal degree and applied to Shell on a graduate management programme. Now I'm the first Indian graduate to have been made a Global VP in Shell. Q2: 17 or 18 years ago as an engineer when you opted to choose HR as a career, how did your near and dear ones react? My mother was very skeptical and thought that after studying engineering in one of the foremost colleges, I was going to be calculating leave days and submitting to payroll. She's an engineer herself who graduated in 1971 and worked in the State Electricity Board for 39 years. So, for her, the concept of HR was limited to calculating annual leaves and encashment, submission to payroll etc. My father on the other hand was more nuanced. He has done industrial relations before and hence was more informed and aware. But we are in a different world at the moment. I've joined a very different kind of a company with a unique fabric. People didn't understand the power of HR at that time because they weren’t familiar with kind of impact efficient HR could have on an organization. Q3: We have moved to a day when the Head of HR has become the Chairman and Managing Director of ONGC. How do you see this as a transition? I'm ecstatic at multiple levels. Firstly, being a woman I am delightful to see another woman get a well-deserved position and secondly from a cultural landscape it is even more appreciated. An HR woman leader is a powerful combination! Along with the content and functional knowledge of the business it is also about adaptation, leading, managing communities of people, direction, vision and inspiration. All of that becomes a great concoction. She (Alka Mittal) has clearly established that and showcased her ability to lead a big Indian government body. So, I believe it is a fantastic news. Her, and Leena Nair going to Chanel... so big and very positive news! Q4: In that context, what would be your message for women at large? “Break the Bias” is very topical because that is the IWD (International Women's Day 2022) theme. I've been fortunate enough to not have felt the bias as much. I was in a progressive family where my mother had broken the bias and had graduated in 1971 in engineering especially at a time when there were three women in her batch. I've been fortunate to have gone through a life where I've never felt that because I'm a girl, I am two steps lesser. So, for me, the message of break the bias translates to people testing against their own vision, their own abilities, their capabilities and to bust these societal and personal myths and to just go after their dream. You see the rainbow, chase it; don't give up thinking, oh it's just really too far away. Every step matter, no matter how big or small. If you are going to ask me, what next, I would say, I would be Shell India Country Chairman. Q5: You have been a part of Shell for 17 years, what's so great about this company? There are three fundamental reasons as to why I have not jumped ship. There is something in the very fabric of Shell that has kept me here for such a long time. First and foremost, Shell has allowed me to be who I am. It is so important to turn up at a workplace being your authentic self, in terms of how you engage, collaborate with people, the way you work, the effectiveness, that all sets up the foundation of a positive cycle for one’s professional goals. The company's ethos and values, which are respect, integrity, and trust, are a true match to mine. The next reason is the support system and space to be flexible. Shell has given me immense support throughout my journey. I've taken maternity leave, work flexibility, sick leaves for mental health. Shell has a sick leave policy of 999 days, and it's 100 per cent based on trust. I've had a time when I've not been mentally well and required time to attend to my mental health. I was given off for about six weeks to cater to my health. Shell truly has walked the talk when it comes to recognizing work-life balance and catering to the wellness of their employees. My husband and I have a dual career; he was constantly in Delhi, while I was in Bangalore. I was raising my son on my own while doing a global job. I wasn't turning up into the office. Life just was difficult and there was just not a time when I was happy. And I took six weeks off at that time. Throughout these difficult times, I didn’t have to lie or make an excuse to my employer. There was a mature understanding of an employee not being in a good mind space and taking time out. Even when my husband moved to Delhi and I requested for a transfer, and it was done. The third and the biggest element is leadership. I've had the chance to work with some great bosses and world-class HR leaders. Archana Bhaskar used to be in Shell before and now she's CHRO of Dr Reddy's, a fantastic leader. Suri Rajagopal used to be in BG and now has moved on. There is immense opportunity to get inspired, learn and grow. Q6: How the company helped its women employees in general to become future leaders? How does the company create a leadership pipeline among women employees?f At Shell we believe the journey starts from the beginning. There is an assessment of wanting gender balance. We always seek gender balance for 50:50. Right from the point of recruitment, when we pick up CVs, we want a 50:50 representation of CV shortlists. We want as many women on the shortlist as there are men. From there onwards, we highlight talent, gender, and potential as key points. A person may not be ready for a leadership role 100 per cent. But we believe in taking chances and to provide that person enough cushion to be able to grow whilst in the role. We also believe in recognizing early on the leaders and especially women leaders, mentoring support, and sponsorship to them. It’s a very nurturing environment, supportive at all times. At Shell, we see mentors as people who are constantly available to you, helping you grow. There is a space for conversations, apart from your boss, acting as an extra pair of eyes and hands. Most importantly, there is a concept of sponsorships where very senior leaders sponsor and stand behind women leaders who are talented and have high potential. Their role is to act as support system, creating space for them unapologetically. I will not categorize it as positive discrimination, but it's one of capability and support to be able to push out better environments for women employees, because if you don't have that 50:50 diversity and inclusion at the very top, it's never going to trickle down to better averages and numbers below. Programs like WCDP or Women's Career Development Programme are specially tailored help women employees take a broader look and evaluate their careers right from writing your own CVs, guiding to an accessible mentor, sponsor, inculcate and groom the skills and assessment that it takes to have an executive presence and build yourself as a brand itself. There are some very hard questions we need to ask to keep up with practical know how and then be able to help women leaders grow. Just like it takes a village to bring up a child, it takes an entire company to be a conduit in an ecosystem where women can grow and manage through a talent pipeline at a process. Q7: You mentioned that the process starts right at the CV stage where you try to ensure that there should be 50:50 gender ratio. Yes, it is one of the forward-thinking ideas, although we may have not been able to implement all of these for e.g. we would like to have women's advisory councils when senior leaders get promoted. The idea is very simple that if you are a strong senior community leader, we will access you to enquire if you are D&I savvy and have a proven history in the company around being a champion for women. And therefore, a senior women advisory committee that would sit and advise on promotion boards and recommend individuals with solid backgrounds and effortless credentials churning out strong senior leaders. We at Shell do recognize that such forward-thinking ideas, come with their own set of difficulties, but it is the outcome that keeps us going. Q8: Is there also some initiative to get women in technology roles? One of the biggest and the flagship ideas Shell has introduced is second career women break re-entry programme. We've been very open to women's re-entry, especially for technology roles, because that's where the flaws and misses lie. Mid-career women, with their nuanced lives and humongous set of responsibilities are trying to find a balance between life and work, very often resulting in drop off, not just for childcare, but also increasingly for old age care. We at Shell, make the employer part of this process because the encouragement starts with acknowledgement that there is a bigger and challenging system that these women are a part of, and that acknowledgement means that we're open with flexible working patterns. We had a woman employee who shifted to Hyderabad post marriage, but we didn't have an office there. So, we made a one-year flexible working arrangement for her. We've had people who've said we need to move bases but are not yet in a space where they can come back to work and need a three-month time out, and we accommodate them. For women, especially in technology we have a very important maternity programme, called Mpower, which is more than just policies, insurance and hospitalization. We've got WhatsApp groups where we put women that are on maternity leave in touch with women that have come back from maternity leave. There's an actual help group about reintegrating into the workforce. It's got everything from which children’s toys to buy to what is the right time to give booster shots to interview tips. We top it with line managers, and it enables them to empathize with a returning maternity woman. We even do scenario plays with them around how to have conversations with women who are coming back from maternity leave. Q9: You are an engineer yourself. So, could you please share one or two examples how Shell is leveraging technology to streamline its HR processes? Shell is a global 125-year-old company with large scale offices and ever-growing roots. So, anything that we try and implement, immediately brings the question of 85,000 employees in the world that have to be streamlined. This gives a peak at the complexity of our HR digitalization journey. Until as recent as 2018, we had a very standard HR model. We used to do payroll input on Excel spreadsheets, put a password protect, send it to the payroll office. We used to have HR people in person at an office where employees would walk up with queries, query management etc. It was a very one-to-one, very standard old-world model. But the HR transformation, which began in 2018, has caused a complete digitalization at the base with the entire model being changed from one-to-one HR support to a model where the first point of contact for line managers or employees is HR operations and HR operations is enabled by technology. You can WhatsApp them, you can chat with them, you can email them, you can call them and anywhere in the globe you can find an HR person with a very streamlined standardized model. India is supported out of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia for this first level of HR operational support. We have also moved to a state-of-the-art system for jobs like computing leave days and encashment. We are able to put in requests for employment verification letter, able to attend and understand leave online and compensation structures at the click of a button. Then there's big HR MI and analytics organization that was specially created as a part of this transformation journey to standardize reports. As an HR VP, I used to ask my HR managers to give me what is the status of FTE and employees in this business versus in that. All that are now available via Workday, at the click of a button. Q10: Has the greater use of technology in HR domain created more jobs or reduced the need for HR professionals? India is a house of talent. Gone are the days when it was only about costs. Now, it's much more about capability and for the Shell Group, we've showed how much India can actually deliver. So, from an HR team of about 40 people, we are now at 140. Globally, we've got learning solutions being driven out of India; we've got recruitment for different businesses being driven out of India. We've now got consultants that work on global projects, sitting in India. So, for India, it's actually meant bigger and more value-added opportunity. Since digitalization has taken care of all the basics, we've now got people freed up to contribute more strategically and that's the India opportunity for Shell, with the third biggest footprint in terms of talent for the Shell Group, after the UK and the Netherlands, and continuing to grow. Q11: In which year, did you have about 40 people in HR? Until about 2018 we were no more than about 35-40 and after that we have significantly grown and we are now 140, in terms of global HR presence in the country. It's because the opportunities have steadily increased. And learning solutions brought in more jobs for us. Last year, we had a big overhaul programme at Shell, called Reshape, a realigning of our purpose and strategy, and everybody in Shell, all the businesses and functions went through that. We simplified our structures, we increased spans, reduced layers, and in all of that learning brought in more jobs. We moved from 90 to 140 just last year alone. Q12: In the last one year or so, there have been lots of unprecedented kind of news like companies with four days working in a week, salary being paid on a weekly basis, Valentine's leave, open salary where each employee can see what others are getting. What is next? Every company has their own way of working, attracting and retaining talent. From a Shell point of view, we are not going to move things in a big hurry. We are a very established company with very solid HR practices. The biggest thing that is changing for us is the future of work and we've never been a remote first organization. We've never had more employees working online than offline. However, we've managed efficiently in these last two years, fundamentally piggybacking around the world-class systems, the world-class processes, and our flexibility. For us, the focus is on keeping the engagement and managing the employer-employee relationship. We've had 2,000 joinees over the last two years, that had joined our IT, finance, and operations, who'd never really worked for Shell before, for whom the brand is not as alive as it is for people who have worked for 17 years. I recognize the ‘Sound of Shell’ music anywhere, but there is no brand affinity that's actually built for these new people. So, for me, it's more about how, in these times, are we going to be keeping who we are and our fabric alive and getting on board and working this through with lesser face-to-face time. And for our leadership to be more empathetic and prepare for unprecedented scenarios. Q13: Now that Covid has subsided and things seem to be getting settled down, will you ask all the employees to come back to the office or do you think that it's a Jinn that has come out of the bottle and it's not going to go back? We have very clearly said we're not going to be remote first for everybody, for the very emphatic reason that we do believe coming back to the workplace means that there is workforce productivity, workforce health, the collaboration, the social networks that people turn up to and psychologically the feeling of wellness. Man is essentially a social animal and to be able to build all of those and to find that in your workplace is really keen and critical. I think our ethos have really been that the Covid pandemic has shown us what flexibility can do and it's also shown us that everything is possible completely online. From an industry standpoint, as well as Shell’s viewpoint hybrid is where it will inevitably end up. But that flexibility of providing the choice to natural pockets of our teams, would remain. We also acknowledge that it is an experiment right now. There is no one size that fits all. We've opened satellite offices, something we hadn't thought about ever before, in Bangalore, for example for IT, and people can choose to go to an office even closer than what they used to go before. We are doing this more cautiously and more experimentally, but also with steer on what is good for the wellbeing of our people. Q14: With HR Heads becoming CEOs, how important is it now for HR Heads to understand the business and behave like a Business Head? It was important. We also have always understood it, the difference is now it is being recognized. I think you cannot divorce understanding of business and do your job. Because we're not in that world of tabulating leave. I keep going back to that world of mechanized processes. India is big on biofuels, big on electric mobility, big on charge points, so many opportunities and if I don't understand the mechanics, the dynamics, what it actually means in terms of the P&L, how am I even going to be able to understand what talent strategy I'm going to adopt, how am I going to offer a good EVP to these people, what it takes to weather the supply demand dynamics. I will not be able to do any of that if I don't understand the business. True and good HR professionals always understood it (the business). Now it has been brought to the fore and I'm so glad that even on HR roles we are breaking the bias, and getting to business roles from HR. Source: ER HRWorld MINT | ‘Need more contingency in PPA pricing for solar power amid rising costs’ Oct 13, 2022 Shell’s Global Renewable Generation EVP Thomas Brostrom & Nitin Prasad, chairman of Shell Companies in India, talks about the acquisition of Actis Llp’s Indian renewable energy platform Sprng Energy by Shell. SYNOPSIS You see more local supply chains starting to also take place in India, which I think will create a more stable cost, says Thomas Brostrom, Shell’s Global Renewable Generation EVP. The comments by Shell’s Global Renewable Generation EVP Thomas Brostrom come against the backdrop of high cost of solar power development in India due to the customs duty on modules and high price of equipment. In an interview, Brostrom said the global energy giant tries to ensure adequate capex while making bids and that its solar projects and those in the pipeline have so far not been impacted by the shortage of modules. With Shell Plc buying Actis Llp’s Indian renewable energy platform Sprng Energy at an enterprise value of $1.55 billion, he noted that currently, the market is witnessing relatively volatile and extreme conditions due to inflation and supply chain bottlenecks. Nitin Prasad, chairman, Shell Companies in India, said the impacted power developers in the current scenario have not just been affected by the price hike on solar modules but also by the land purchase deals they have done and the execution of the projects. Edited excerpts: How has the recent rise in solar module prices due to the customs duty and the supply chain issues impacted your projects? Brostrom: I think what we’re seeing now is of course relatively volatile, almost extreme conditions. When you have inflation and supply chain bottlenecks, then you have to be very careful about how you match your PPA price with your capex (capital expenditure). And you also have the commodity prices which have been only going one way. We can see it’s starting to normalize a bit more, so we’ll hopefully get back to more normal conditions over the next six, 12 or 18 months. But in the interim what we’ve been doing, not so much in India, because we’re very new here, is basically going back to our customers to say ‘hey, we need to have another discussion around our PPA because in this market, the things have changed dramatically’. So, I think that’s just been the nature of it. You see more local supply chains starting to also take place in India, which I think will create a more stable cost. Again, it might be slightly off because some of the components might be slightly more expensive compared to China. But I think over time, you will see more stable price development. What we’ve been doing is, we have as much certainty as we can on the capex. And of course, then on the PPA price, you may have to have a bit more contingency, and I think that’s just how you navigate this market. But my hope is that in the next period, you’ll see it starting to come back to a bit more normal circumstances again and we’ve seen the same thing in the US with all the tariffs and the dumping issues we’ve had there as well. Prasad: What you are referring to is perhaps the economic sensitivity of some of our competitors, which is broader than I think just the modules and of course the modules have had their part to play as well as the prices. But I would also say, there's also financing structures..how they've gone about doing the land purchases and how they actually come back and execute and that's actually why we like Actis-backed platform Sprng and why we chose to acquire them—because they have demonstrated tremendous capability to be the most competitive in this marketplace. It was really one of the reasons why we really liked them, and we continue to believe that we will be more competitive as we go forward. MINT | Shell Lubricants to Sell EV battery coolants in India Aug 08, 2022 Shell Lubricants global executive vice-president Machteld De Haan, and India head, Debanjali Sengupta, speak about Shell's diversification plans and how we are looking to become a global lubricant and fluid solutions company, shifting beyond its original focus only on lubricants. SYNOPSIS Company to initially import electric vehicle fluids, but will manufacture locally later. Attracted by India's electric vehicles play, global energy giant Shell Inc.'s subsidiary Shell Lubricants will launch fluids for EV motors suitable for the climatic and geographic conditions. In an interview, Shell Lubricants global executive vice-president Machteld De Haan, and India head, Debanjali Sengupta, said the company will initially import electric vehicle fluids, but manufacture the product locally later. The heat transfer fluids, or coolant, is used in thermal management to keep the batteries cool. The development is significant as India has reported a number of electric vehicle fire incidents, mostly due to overheating of faulty battery packs. “Thermal management is an important piece for electric vehicles. If you can keep the battery cool, you can prevent it from overheating," said De Haan. The electric vehicle-specific product is available globally, and Shell is currently in talks with original equipment manufacturers in India, said Sengupta. “When they are ready, we can bring it in. We have started pilots and trials, so things are ongoing," Sengupta said. Talking of Shell's diversification plans, De Haan said the company is looking to become a global lubricant and fluid solutions company, shifting beyond its original focus only on lubricants. “We will try to diversify from friction management to thermal management. We have got some really good experience in immersion cooling; this is where we can really help data centres to reduce the energy consumption and carbon footprint, an area where we are doing some pilots today in the market here" De Haan said. Furthermore, with the electrification of the mobility space, Shell Lubricants is also looking at electric vehicle fluids, transmission fluids and e-greases. In 2019, it had launched its first electric vehicle fluid, and continues to develop the product in partnership with original equipment manufacturers globally, she said. India's push for electric vehicles is slowly gaining traction with 1.33 million registrations. With this diversification, Shell plans to double its business in India in the next five years, targeting to feature in the top five lube manufacturers from its current ranking among the top 10. “Indian operations registered a 12% growth last year over 2019, and things are looking bright even in 2022, which will be better than the 2021 performance. India is a really important market for us. We want to double the business in India. We're looking to really increase our reach from the 50,000 points that we have today to 100,000 points. We want to bank on some of the new products that we're introducing over the last couple of months," De Haans said. In July, the company launched Shell Engine Oil custom-made and designed for three-wheelers, with active cleansing technology that keeps engines clean and protected at high temperature. The engine oil can be used for compressed natural gas (CNG), liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), petrol and diesel engines. Developed specifically for India, the company is now exporting it to the neighbouring markets with high three-wheeler penetration. “India took the lead in developing something that is very market-specific, but then we'll see how we can apply it somewhere else in the world," she said. Shell Lubricant India had increased its production capacity at its lubricant oil-blending plant at Taloja in Maharashtra recently, and it now plans further expansions for a few more India- as well as South Asia-specific products. Times of India | Shell Lubricants doubling down on India: Expands B2C services, sustainable products, and data centre hold Aug 16, 2022 Shell Lubricants global executive vice-president Machteld De Haan talks about expansion plans for India and new opportunities in the market for the Shell Lubricants business. A recent Moody's Investor Service report stated that India is the third-largest finished lubricant market in the world, behind the US and China. With general economic recovery and consumer preference shifting towards personal mobility, the demand is expected to grow at a steady pace. The automotive market of India saw a growth of 27 percent in 2021 alone. In an exclusive interview with TOI Auto, we spoke to Machteld De Haan , Executive Vice President, Shell Lubricants to understand how the oil and lubricants company is planning to expand its presence in India and what are the new opportunities that they are excited about. The growing market of India is also witnessing a shift towards more sustainable mobility solutions such as bio-fuels and electrification. "Shell is the first company to introduce premium products made from natural gas and products that are more sustainable. We have products that are either biodegradable or made from re-refined base oils. For EVs we have multiple ranges of products such as EV-specific transmission fluids that are very specific to the EV drivetrain. An electric vehicle also has a battery that needs thermal management and we have products for that as well. We launched our first EV fluid range back in 2019, so we have been in the business for a couple of years. We are constantly working with large OEMs to improve these technologies, for instance our EV fluids are being provided to Mahindra for their Formula-E car. This helps us test our products under very extreme conditions and make them better." Haan said during the interaction. Currently, Shell is among the top three market players in India in the passenger car motor oil (PCMO) sector. The company sees India as a key growth market that will be amongst its top five markets by 2027. Haan says, "While better products are a bucket that we focus on as a key priority. Our second priority is that we want to grow in the industrial sector, as it is the largest market and a growing sector as well. It includes agriculture, construction and power. All these sectors grow when the GDP grows and we want to make sure that we increase our footprint in that space. We have growth markets such as India, China, Indonesia and Brazil, where we want to grow." "We also want to grow into customer solutions which means we want to move from just products to customer solutions by offering services to B2C customers. This includes oil changes, services, multi-care and also provide B2B services such as oil monitoring, reliability services, total fluid management and lastly we also want to expand into new sectors. This means looking into thermal fluids for fluid management in batteries or data centres." Currently, Shell Lubricants reach is 50 thousand outlets in India, which the company aims to double by 2025. The plan is to expand presence in North and East India by investing in its distribution infrastructure (Feet-on-the-ground). While the company sees scope to grow in motorcycle oil and commercial vehicle oil sectors too, there is another unconventional opportunity that has captured Shell Lubricant's attention. That is of India's growing market of data centres. All the electricity that is used by IT components in a data centre, generates heat that needs to be managed. "Data centres are particularly interesting because today most of them are being air-cooled and use a lot of energy. With our new immersion cooling fluids that we are producing, we can reduce the temperature of the data centres and the computing power they need, helping them reduce their overall carbon footprint. Our immersion cooling fluids will be piloting in India very soon!" Haan said. Compared with traditional air cooling, single-phase immersion cooling technology as an integrated solution can reduce energy use and carbon emissions in data centres by up to 48 percent through its high cooling efficiency which is advantageous for data centres of all sizes. What's more? The immersion technology can also be applied to EVs as well, so it is a win-win for Shell Lubricants India. The Hindu BusinessLine | Shell E4 Program eyes investment in deep tech start-ups in energy and mobility space Nov 19, 2022 By Yatti Soni Shell’s flagship start-up incubation programme, Shell E4 program, has expanded its investment themes to include deep tech companies working in energy and mobility space, Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India told businessline. “We have in the past focused on bio solutions and waste-based solutions, but now we’ve expanded that to have a broader look at circularity-based solutions and greater use of materials efficiency in the energy space,” he added. Focus on CCUS Further, the programme is also expanding focus on Carbon Capture, Usage and Storage (CCUS) related technologies, as the number of start-ups in this space grows and the quality of ideas flourishes. Started in 2017, Shell E4 Program is a programme that collaborates with technology, venture, government, academia partners, eminent coaches and industry expert mentors to enable digital start-ups to achieve industry readiness and implement strategies for scaling and global expansion in the industrial and energy verticals. Every year, the programme looks at roughly 1,200 to 1,500 start-up applications and selects an average of 20-25 start-ups in a year. The selected start-ups are given a grant of $20,000 along with other benefits. “We run two or maybe three cohorts in a year. While there is no fixed cap on the cohort size, the number of selected start-ups is a function of how many of them are ready. If there was a bigger base of start-ups that we see ready for a particular cohort, then we do take them and we continue to grow in that respect,” said Prasad. The programme has a focus on including almost 30 per cent start-ups from tier 2 and beyond cities. Talking about the vision behind this, he said, “it’s a lot about expanding the pool of available start-ups. Our larger ambition is to grow the ecosystem. We are not just trying to get into this on a pure-play investment and returns type basis, the programme is about accelerating India’s energy transition and building the collective country-level capacity to be able to do that.” The Hindu BusinessLine | Helping hand. Moving LNG on wheels for small scale users Nov 27, 2022 Shell Energy’s truck loading of LNG improves access to clean energy for off-grid industriesBy Rutam Vora Industrial clusters located off the gas grid in parts of Gujarat, Western Madhya Pradesh and Northern Maharashtra are increasingly turning to clean fuel, thanks to the truck transport of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG). Indian arm of the Royal Dutch Shell – Shell Energy India – has started rolling out small-scale LNG supplies through its truck-loading facility from Hazira LNG terminal in South Gujarat. According to officials, has helped industries in the off-grid locations to adopt cleaner energy fuels and reduce emissions. Providing access Launched in January 2021, the truck-loading facility is not new to India but was first for Shell’s Hazira facility which is surrounded by industrial clusters along the coast of Gujarat and also in the hinterland of Western Madhya Pradesh and parts of Maharashtra. There are quite a few in the 300 kms area. This include Ankleshwar-Bharuch chemicals, fertilisers and pharmaceutical cluster; textiles and engineering cluster near Surat and heavy engineering and equipment cluster at Vadodara. Currently, Shell dispatches the trucks with LNG in cryogenic tankers to the remote areas within the radius of 300-500 kilometres from the Hazira facility, which is equipped with 5-million tonnes per annum LNG import terminal. The LNG terminal is connected to all the three major national gas pipelines effectively pushing gas to almost everywhere in the country. Speaking to businessline, Rahul Singh, VP India, Integrated Gas & RES, underlined a growing adoption by small players. He also highlighted that the smaller industrial customers that were off the grid were disconnected from access to LNG. They were not able to have access to LNG for their decarbonisation needs. Shell Energy has two operational truck-loading bays at Hazira. The trucks carry small loads in the size of about 20 tonnes capacity, effectively carrying about 800 metric million British thermal unit of LNG to meet their small requirements. The pipeline connectivity no longer becomes a constraint for them, he said. Potential pitfalls The customers would require regasification facilities to convert LNG back to natural gas. However, the industry sees some concerns too such as dependability of supplies and the price factor. A Surat-based policy expert and former President of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ajoy Bhattacharya said that access to clean energy for small businesses is immensely necessary. However, there may be issues in truck transport of LNG like ensuring consistent and timely supply and control on pricing. Gas supplies through the grid are under certain controls, whereas truck-loaded LNG supplies may have variable factors such as distance and travel time, which could impact pricing, he said. Notably, through the small-scale LNG, Shell Energy attempts to contribute in realizing India’s target of increasing the share of gas in primary energy mix to 15 per cent by allowing small players to access clean fuel. While gas customers in industrial clusters are expected to be the primary beneficiaries, small-scale LNG will also support the market seeding and development of the recently licensed CGD (City Gas Distribution) geographical areas, not yet connected by pipelines, the company had said while inaugurating the LNG truck loading facility. The Hindu BusinessLine | Shell Café debuts in India; opens sit-down restaurant in Bengaluru Feb 03, 2023 Istvan Kapitany Global Executive Vice President, Shell highlights about company's strategic plans to transform the fuel retail business in India and integrated value propositions for customers. Oil and gas giant Shell inaugurated the country’s first Shell Café, a global programme through which the company offers its own brand of fast food and coffee, at one of its retail stations in Bengaluru. Istvan Kapitany, Global Executive Vice-President, Shell, told businessline, that a majority of these cafes have been set up in Europe and China and are now expanding into America and other parts of Asia. In fact, in India, more cafes will be set up in prime city locations along its forecourts and on highways. “We are starting with our service stations as a first step and have made a sit-down restaurant to offer a different experience, while a customer waits. Moreover, in the case of e-mobility, since there is a wait time—the average charging time in our global network is around 20 minutes—one can make use of all these facilities,” he added. According to Kapitany, the value proposition is centred around a seamless experience delivered through integrated services, including restrooms and parking facilities in highways, and it will also be a credible food partner with a safe and secure environment. Shell has five different operating models for its cafe, ranging from automatic coffee machines to small kiosks to a full-service sit-down café. EV charging points In accordance with its ambition to set up 10,000 charging points in the country by 2030, the company, recently formed a partnership with Table Space to establish an EV charging infrastructure powered by renewable energy. Kapitany said, “Table Space will provide Shell with the space and electrical infrastructure for installing and enabling EV charging at premium locations operated by it.” These will include tech parks, business parks and reputed housing localities across six cities, including Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai and the NCR. “Our ambition is to operate more than 500,000 EV charging points by 2025 and 2.5 million points by 2030 across the world. We have a strategic commitment to develop our network around the world. Our approach to establishing the same is very customer-centric,” he said. Globally, Shell operates 46,000 retail outlets across 80 countries, while in India, it has more than 350 retail outlets in eight States. The company recently announced adjusted earnings of $9.8 billion in the Q4 FY22. In conversation with Nakul Raheja, Country Head, Shell Energy India Mar 23, 2023 Watch this insightful interview with Nakul Raheja, Country Head of Shell Energy India, to learn more about India's energy landscape, the challenges, opportunities and solutions for the way forward, and Shell's vision for a sustainable future. Nakul Raheja, Country Head of Shell Energy India, discusses the current state of India's energy landscape and the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. He emphasizes the need for a diversified energy mix in India, with a greater emphasis on cleaner energy sources. Raheja also shares Shell's vision for the future, including investments in renewable energy and electric mobility solutions. He believes that collaboration between industry and government is key to achieving a sustainable energy future in India. Shell’s Pratibha Priyadarshini on why diversity and inclusion in the energy sector is crucial for energy transition Mar 27, 2023 Pratibha Priyadarshini VP and Head of HR, discusses about how diversity and inclusion will be instrumental for a successful energy transition. Within the evolving landscape of the energy sector, it is not just the traditional skills that hold criticality for women but also the future skills across carbon capture and sequestration, electricity, EV and emission reduction across the value chain, says Pratibha Priyadarshini, VP and Head HR, Shell Companies in India. Societies worldwide are amid the energy transition revolution, and energy companies are naturally the most affected by the change. They not only need traditional skills but, in the face of transition, are increasingly focusing on power, hydrogen, and carbon (credits/sequestration). But there are other issues too. In a study, McKinsey identified that one of the critical problems faced by the energy sector is that women account for only a small share of graduates in relevant majors. Pratibha Priyadarshini, VP and Head of HR, Shell Companies in India, says the energy transition has given rise to the need for new skills such as front-end development manager (FEDM), business development, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) where women can make their mark. “We have an opportunity to influence participation at the inception. We are keeping a focused lens around diverse participation as we go through this re-skilling period. Shell continues to bring changes in the traditionally male-dominated sector," she says, noting that being the only company in India to employ women as trading and supply managers at their Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust terminal, they have also set up separate washrooms for women to ensure comfort and hygiene. The energy sector offers diverse jobs, and the number of quality female talent is growing in India, but the education systems must keep up with this change. “In the face of that, we also have faced challenges in talent supply, but with focused efforts and commitment, we continue to build niche skill development in-house. Furthermore, new areas such as electricity necessitate academic and strategic partnerships through which we can bring in more women talent into the company and the sector at large,” she says. In an exclusive interaction with People Matters, Priyadarshini talks about what the future holds for women in the energy sector and shares diverse women empowerment practices and programmes being undertaken by Shell to empower women in and beyond the workplace. Shell India bagged the “Best Companies for Women in India 2021” award for the fourth time for its progressive women-centric policies and well-balanced, equitable, inclusive work culture and chosen for the “Exemplar of Inclusion” award in the third edition of Working Mother & Avtar Most Inclusive Companies Index (MICI). Can you describe Shell’s current approach to promoting diversity and inclusion (D&I) and how it specifically applies to supporting women in the industry? We are continually working towards employee well-being (physical, mental and emotional) and diversity – not just in terms of gender but other aspects like disability. This starts with a clear north star at the group level and coupling this with key themes for the country we operate out of. In India, when it comes to gender, we have focused on our three pillars of people, policies and perspectives. Sharing an example around the people pillar, we have created dedicated mentoring circles and networks equipped with various career opportunities for senior women leadership representation. Shell has 50 per cent gender diversity on its board globally, and in India, women hold 22 per cent of leadership positions across all locations. The Women’s Career Development Programme (WCDP) is a highly interactive diversity and inclusion learning initiative designed to help our women employees identify what they want from their professional and personal lives and support them in achieving their full potential. Does Shell have any specific initiatives or programmes to support women's recruitment, retention, and advancement in the industry? By understanding the importance of gender balance at the initial stage of hiring, Shell has succeeded in increasing women’s representation in its workforce. Around 43 per cent of campus hires in 2022 were women. Shell D&I Learning collaborated with Quest, an organisation that partners with the world's leading companies to help Early Career Women launch and accelerate their careers, to organise a series of webinars for women in the early phases of their careers (2-6 years). At all points in time, we ensure Assessor Diversity (Diversity Focus in Assessor Workshop Nominations/ Assessor Certifications in India) – which is continually tracked to ensure that diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) efforts are sticky. We have created One-to-One or Group Mentoring opportunities to provide a safe space for women to discuss issues impacting them personally or professionally with a mentor of their choice and with the promise of confidentiality from the mentor to the mentee. We have also created a community for all women in Shell India on the internal site, Yammer, allowing them to connect with each other. Not just within the company, Shell also focuses on gender across the value chain towards the advancement of women representation in the industry. How does your organisation measure the success of its D&I efforts? What metrics do you use to evaluate progress? We look for data-driven evidence for the company's DEI efforts through supportive policies and cultural tenets. We have the following parameters for measuring the success of our efforts: Attraction/recruitment lens: Two measures of equity that we critically follow are access and participation. For this, we compare the diversity percentage of the candidates who had access to the role to the diversity percentage of people who participated /applied for the role. If there is a disparity in access and participation, then we make efforts to do more than just give equal opportunities. Culture: We are driving conscious inclusion at the workplace around pay by monitoring measurable data like diversity skews during appraisal/ performance outcomes. We also continually monitor the gender pay gap at the group level to track the impact of the conscious choices made by the company. We take pride in enabling employees to bring their whole self to the company, and that emphasises the need to offer a safe workspace – both physical and mental safety is paramount to our ways of working. To foster a ‘Speak Up’ culture, we have a direct channel to raise any issues affecting the safety of women, and the anonymous ‘Global Helpline’ is continually monitored for trends for appropriate proactive interventions, especially considering that Shell has turned into a melting pot of cultures with our employees joining from more than 400 different organisations. Through our internal Shell People Survey, we emphasise continually tracking critical cultural questions on DEI. Performance Management: We regularly perform checks for D&I skews at EVP/ Sr. Executive level to systemically address barriers and enable fair ratings for employees during maternity/special circumstances. How does Shell ensure that women are represented at all levels, including in leadership positions? Whilst the trend is improving, we still have representation gaps, especially at the leadership level, driven by supply-gap and the lower preference for energy companies. In that sense, I will take this question differently at the start; we have a definition for senior women talent and are at 22 per cent for diversity. Shell, as an organisation in the broader society, is no different and suffers from the usual vices of 3 Ms – Maternity, Marriage, and Mobility when losing women talent. Women are often held to a higher standard than their male counterparts. This is the first challenge we address by creating a culture to speak up and remove biases – bias training also brings this critical element into our consciousness. The second would be “looking for answers”; we are running mentoring circles for some time to help answer questions on work-life balance issues and upward career mobility. Leaders are also encouraged to have diversity as one of the foundational goals in the company, thereby tying diversity to their performances. What do you think the future holds for women in the energy sector? How is Shell positioning itself as a leader in promoting D&I in this industry? I believe that with the evolving landscape of the energy sector, it is not just the traditional skills that hold criticality but also the future skills across carbon capture and sequestration, electricity, EV and emission reduction across the value chain. Shell is at the forefront of finding solutions to this critical issue. It is this very purposeful journey that allows Shell and, by extension, the other companies in the energy sector to be the leaders in driving change. At Shell, evolving talent demand scenarios and growing investment away from the traditional oil and gas sources into transition-important avenues such as electricity, decarbonisation, hydrogen, and nature-based solutions provides opportunities for our employees to lead change from the front. Great things happen when opportunity meets talent, and we strive to foster an equitable workplace that is tailored to the needs of individuals whilst inspiring them towards our collective purpose. What advice would you give to other companies in the energy sector looking to improve their diversity and inclusion efforts for women? Diversity and inclusion efforts are successful only if the organisation’s culture supports an inclusive environment. Hence, it is imperative for companies to foster a culture that appreciates diversity and to continue working towards identifying and removing biases and barriers. Change comes with sustained efforts and over time. Change is needed on multiple fronts – mindsets, behaviours and actions, especially leadership. It is imperative for the companies to appreciate that commitment to DEI, by establishing a clear diversity and inclusion strategy that is communicated to employees. Measuring progress and holding leaders accountable goes a long way in driving change across the organisation. Numbers are the first indicators of change, and therefore companies should establish clear metrics to measure progress in improving their D&I efforts. Clear, visible leadership and sponsorship go a long way in leading the change. India to be key destination for energy transition gear in 5 years, says Shell's Huibert Vigeveno Mar 30, 2023 Huibert Vigeveno, Downstream and Renewables Director explains Shell’s Powering Progress strategy and how India will become an important destination for sourcing energy transition equipments in future. Shell has 11,000 employees in India spread across its fuel retail, gas, lubricant and technology businesses, with staff at the IT centre working to develop digital twins of the company's remote assets, and many others engaged in remote asset monitoring. India will become an important destination for sourcing energy transition equipment in five years, a top executive at energy giant Shell said, adding that the country will also have the highest number of Shell employees anywhere in the world in five years as the businesses grow. Shell has 11,000 employees in India spread across its fuel retail, gas, lubricant and technology businesses, with staff at the IT centre working to develop digital twins of the company's remote assets, and many others engaged in remote asset monitoring. "In five years, India will be our largest employer," Huibert Vigeveno, director (renewables & downstream), Shell, told ET in an interview. India will surpass the US, which has the highest number of Shell employees today, as the company's investments in the Indian energy sector grow and opportunities for global collaborations expand. "In five years, we will have grown a lot in greener electrons and greener molecules," he said. Shell is beginning to make inroads into green energy in India, acquiring renewables business as well as partnering with a variety of customers to help them in their decarbonization efforts. It acquired renewable energy platform Sprng Energy in a $1.55 billion deal last year. It also opened its first EV charging facility last year and aims to set up 10,000 fast charging points by 2030. "India will have a lot to offer on sourcing of products and services, equipment and other activities, which we will utilise in the country, but also around the world," Vigeveno said. The sourcing could be spread over the entire energy transition value chain from renewable energy to biofuels and electrolyzers. "India is distinctly emerging as an alternate sourcing destination for critical pieces of equipment," said Nitin Prasad, chairman, Shell Companies, India. "What's also happening in the energy transition is that you are looking at equipment which are much more suited to the Indian ecosystem and environment: more modular design, more oriented toward automation, robotics." As it enhances its presence in the low-carbon sector, Shell has seen its interest wane in the refinery business. "If you look at 20 years ago, we used to have 55 refineries. If you look at early 2020, we had 16 refineries, and we are concentrating now on five refineries, which I'm transitioning to energy and chemical parks," Vigeveno said. Shell didn't bid for Bharat Petroleum Corp (BPCL), a state-run refinery India planned to sell to the private sector. The government cancelled the sale plan last year due to poor investor interest. Shell doesn't need refineries to support its fuel sales network, Vigeveno said. "You don't really require a refinery to be a very successful mobility provider. What you need is to have very strong logistics. You need terminals, depots, pipelines, trading capabilities," he said. Shell operates about 350 fuel retail stations in India, a tiny share of the country's 86,000 pumps. "I don't think there is any lack of ambition," said Prasad. "This is not just a simple rebranding exercise. There's a construction cycle. It takes three years to build a station." Shell is expanding its presence to 128 cities and towns from only a handful a few years ago, he added. Shell is keen on green hydrogen but is waiting for optimal demand to emerge before it can use its global capabilities to invest in this space in India. "We are working with the government to come back and put structures in place that will create the demand use cases, whether it's in mobility or on steel or in ammonia or in other sectors," Prasad said. Media enquiryPlease use the online form below to submit your media related enquires only.ET EDGE Podcast | India’s Transition to an equitable Net Zero EconomyListen to an in-depth conversation between Nitin Prasad, Chairman, Shell Companies in India and Dr Vibha Dhawan, Director General, TERI as they discuss the future of energy and delve into key insights representing the current scenario, future implications and possible outcomes for the evolving energy market in India.News and Media Releases 2023Media releases published in 2023 by Shell in India. Shell India announces Bollywood actor Shahid Kapoor as the brand ambassador for its Lubricants business Jun 16, 2023 National: Shell India has onboarded Bollywood versatile actor Shahid Kapoor as the brand ambassador for its Lubricants business in India. Shell is looking to expand its customer base and will bank on Kapoor’s pan-India popularity and youthful energy across all age groups. Shell India announces Bollywood actor Shahid Kapoor as the brand ambassador for its Lubricants business Jun 16, 2023 National: Shell India has onboarded Bollywood versatile actor Shahid Kapoor as the brand ambassador for its Lubricants business in India. Shell is looking to expand its customer base and will bank on Kapoor’s pan-India popularity and youthful energy across all age groups. The brand also launched its new campaign, ‘Rukna Mushkil Hai,’ for Shell Advance range of motorcycle oils today. It celebrates the spirit of new India and the unstoppable Indian riders powered by passion, determination, hope, vision, and Shell Advance engine oil. Aimed towards everyday Indian riders, the new campaign celebrates the rider community for whom their bike is not just a machine or a mobility device but a true partner in their growth journey. Announcing the new brand Ambassador and the campaign, Amit Ghugre, Automotive Sales and Marketing Manager, Shell Lubricants India, said, “At Shell, we constantly strive for progress. This collaboration strengthens our goal to support the hardworking spirit of bikers and power their progress. Shahid is an obvious choice as he has the right appeal and passion for love for bikes that has endeared him to millions of Indians, as a beloved youth icon. We are truly delighted to have Shahid on board as the Brand Ambassador for Rukna Mushkil Hai” Sharing his excitement, motorcycle enthusiast and brand ambassador, Shahid Kapoor said, “‘Rukna Mushkil Hai’ showcases how Shell Advance transforms into a catalyst that enables and empowers riders to achieve their goals. I am proud to partner with Shell Lubricants India to bring the brand closer to Indian bikers, to be a part of their unstoppable journey and make a difference.” To capture the brand’s youth centricity, Shell Lubricants India roped in MTV Hustle contestant Gaurav Mankoti, also known by his stage name, VOID, to compose the upbeat track that features in the TVC starring Shahid Kapoor. Shell Advance range of motorcycle oils is designed for different types of motorcycles and riding styles and includes Shell Advance Fuel Save, Shell Advance Ultra, Shell Advance AX7, Shell Advance AX5 and Shell Advance AX3. The portfolio represents mineral and synthetic 4T, 2T motorcycle, and scooter engine oils recommended for different types of motorcycles and riding styles. Notes to Editors About Shell India Shell is one of India's most diversified international energy companies, with over 10,000 employees and a presence across upstream, integrated gas, downstream, renewable energy, and deep capabilities in Research & Development, digitisation, and business operations. With over 350 retail stations across eight states, Shell India is expanding its fuel station network and launched Shell Recharge, its EV charging service, in September 2022, which is rapidly growing in the EV infrastructure space. Shell Lubricants serves over 50,000 consumers through a network of more than 200 B2C and B2B distributors and operates an end-to-end value chain that spans conceptualization and development, production at a world-class blending plant, and distribution through a network of four regional distribution centres and eight warehouses. The company also fully owns and operates an LNG re-gasification terminal at Hazira, Surat. In addition, Shell India has also established an LNG truck-loading unit to supply natural gas to customers across the country. With a focus on digitisation and sustainable solutions, Shell is nurturing a vibrant ecosystem in India to accelerate energy innovation. Its initiatives include Shell E4 for startups, Shell Eco-marathon, investments in new energy companies like Husk Power, d.light, Orb Energy and Cleantech Solar, and the acquisition of renewables asset developers Solenergi Power Private Limited and the Sprng Energy group of companies. Shell also remains committed to positively contributing to the communities in which it operates through programmes like NXplorers, Access to Energy, Drive Safe, and Road Safety across India. Visit our website www.shell.in and follow us on Twitter (@shell_India @makethefuture @shell_ecomar), LinkedIn, Facebook and Instagram to know how it is redefining the energy space. Enquiries Edelman India – Urvashi Rawat: urvashi.rawat@edelman.com Edelman India – Mayuri Jhalani: mayuri.jhalani@edelman.com Cautionary Note The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this announcement, “Shell”, “Shell Group” and “Group” are sometimes used for convenience where references are made to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words “we”, “us” and “our” are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. ‘‘Subsidiaries’’, “Shell subsidiaries” and “Shell companies” as used in this announcement refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. Entities and unincorporated arrangements over which Shell has joint control are generally referred to as “joint ventures” and “joint operations”, respectively. “Joint ventures” and “joint operations” are collectively referred to as “joint arrangements”. Entities over which Shell has significant influence but neither control nor joint control are referred to as “associates”. The term “Shell interest” is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. Forward-Looking Statements This announcement contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management’s current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management’s expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “aim”, “ambition”, ‘‘anticipate’’, ‘‘believe’’, ‘‘could’’, ‘‘estimate’’, ‘‘expect’’, ‘‘goals’’, ‘‘intend’’, ‘‘may’’, “milestones”, ‘‘objectives’’, ‘‘outlook’’, ‘‘plan’’, ‘‘probably’’, ‘‘project’’, ‘‘risks’’, “schedule”, ‘‘seek’’, ‘‘should’’, ‘‘target’’, ‘‘will’’ and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this announcement, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell’s products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 (coronavirus) outbreak; and (n) changes in trading conditions. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this announcement are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Additional risk factors that may affect future results are contained in Shell plc’s Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2022 (available at www.shell.com/investor and www.sec.gov). These risk factors also expressly qualify all forward-looking statements contained in this announcement and should be considered by the reader. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this announcement, 16th June. Neither Shell plc nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement. Shell’s net carbon intensity Also, in this announcement we may refer to Shell’s “Net Carbon Intensity”, which includes Shell’s carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our suppliers’ carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production and our customers’ carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy products we sell. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the term Shell’s “Net Carbon Intensity” is for convenience only and not intended to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries. Shell’s net-Zero Emissions Target Shell’s operating plan, outlook and budgets are forecasted for a ten-year period and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next ten years. Accordingly, they reflect our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Net Carbon Intensity (NCI) targets over the next ten years. However, Shell’s operating plans cannot reflect our 2050 net-zero emissions target and 2035 NCI target, as these targets are currently outside our planning period. In the future, as society moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell’s operating plans to reflect this movement. However, if society is not net zero in 2050, as of today, there would be significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. Forward Looking Non-GAAP measures This announcement may contain certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such as cash capital expenditure and divestments. We are unable to provide a reconciliation of these forward-looking Non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to reconcile those Non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies applied in Shell plc’s consolidated financial statements. The contents of websites referred to in this announcement do not form part of this announcement. We may have used certain terms, such as resources, in this announcement that the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20-F, File No 1-32575, available on the SEC website www.sec.gov. AccessibilityShell is an inclusive organisation and we strive to provide an experience for everyone who visits our website that is both welcoming and accessible.To achieve this, we proactively apply an approach that considers different needs and accessibility enabling technology, in line with the best practices and standards defined by the web content accessibility guidelines - WCAG 2.1 (AA).By making our websites fully accessible to everyone, we aim to ensure our visitors experience Shell’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. We want you to find what you need We have made our internal and external sites compatible with as many browsers, platforms, and hardware as possible including desktop computers, laptops, tablets, and smartphones. Should you have any questions, suggestions, or wish to bring any issues or inconsistencies to our attention please contact us. We provide accessibility tools and tips Accessing our websites has never been easier, however below are a few tips to personalize your experience and a complete guide can be found by visiting our My Computer My Way website. Making pages easier to read When text is too small web pages can be difficult to view. Several popular browsers including Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Opera allow you to zoom in and out using your mouse and keyboard shortcuts, as follows (use the Control key in Windows systems, and the Command key in Mac OS): Hold the Control/Command key and scroll up or down to zoom in or out Hold the Control/Command key and press + or – to zoom in or out Magnifying your screen It may be more convenient to magnify your screen. All recent versions of Windows include a magnifier, which can enlarge a portion of the screen. However, you may find you require fully-functional magnification software. You can access more information about screen magnifiers in Windows 10 Magnifier, Windows 8.1 Magnifier, and Windows 7 Magnifier Users running Apple’s OS X operating systems can use the in-built Zoom feature. Using a screen reader Screen reader programs will read the content of the web page to the user. Windows users can access Windows Narrator which converts on-screen text into speech. This is available in Windows 10 Narrator, Windows 8.1 Narrator, and Windows 7 Narrator In Apple’s OSX operating system, users will find the VoiceOver feature. Third-party screen readers are also available such as JAWS (Job Access With Speech) and the freeware program NVDA. Android users can access the Talkback feature & iPhone or Ipad users can access the Voiceover feature PDF files We use PDF files to help us preserve the look and feel of our original documents. To open and view PDF files, you can download the latest version of Adobe Acrobat Reader free of charge. Adobe also publishes information on accessing PDFs using screen readers. Terms and conditionsThese Terms and Conditions apply to your access to and use of this Website. Please read these Terms and Conditions carefully. Welcome to Shell India website. This website is owned and operated by Shell India Markets Private Limited, an Indian company with registered number U23201TN2004PTC053147, and registered office at 2nd Floor, Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia Business Park, 143, Dr MGR Road, Perungudi, Chennai - 600 096. Visitors to this web site are bound by the following terms and conditions so please read these carefully before continuing. Other Shell web sites may contain terms and conditions that differ. On your journey around the Shell web sites please check each web site you visit and do not assume that these terms and conditions apply to all Shell web sites. General terms and conditions for the sale of Shell lubricants General Terms & Conditions Applicable to supply of Shell branded bitumen products and servicesIn the absence of any Supply Agreement which has been signed on behalf of Shell and the Buyer, all Products and Services are supplied subject to Shell's General Terms and Conditions of Supply detailed below and (where relevant) the Delivery Promise (together this 'Agreement'). Without limitation, placing an order (which is subsequently accepted by Shell) and/or lifting and/or accepting the Product shall signify acceptance of this Agreement and shall override any other terms or conditions put forward by the Buyer. To the extent of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any other agreement signed by duly authorized representatives of Buyer and Shell, the terms of the latter agreement shall apply. This Agreement shall apply only to an individual order and supply of Products or services between Shell and the Buyer and shall not be construed as conferring an ongoing relationship or term contract between the Buyer and Shell. Shell has no obligation to accept any order from the Buyer and the Buyer has no obligation to place orders with Shell. Shell reserves the right to recover any loss it suffers as a result of the Buyer cancelling or amending an order after it has been submitted to and accepted by Shell. General terms and conditions of sale All Product and/or Services are supplied subject to Shell's General Terms and Conditions of Sale detailed below (“GT&Cs”) and (where relevant) the Delivery Promise and any agreement to which these GT&Cs are attached and incorporated by reference (together, this “Agreement”). Without limitation, placing an order (which is subsequently accepted by Shell) and/or lifting and/or accepting the Product shall signify acceptance of this Agreement and shall override any other terms or conditions put forward by Buyer. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, (a) this Agreement shall apply only to an individual order and supply of Product or services between Shell and Buyer and shall not be construed as conferring an ongoing relationship or term contract between Buyer and Shell; and (b) Shell has no obligation to accept any order from Buyer and Buyer has no obligation to place orders with Shell. Shell reserves the right to recover any loss it suffers as a result of Buyer cancelling or amending an order after it has been submitted to and accepted by Shell. 1. Definitions in this agreement: “Affiliate” means, in reference to a Person, any other Person which: (i) directly or indirectly controls or is controlled by the first Person; or (ii) is directly or indirectly controlled by a Person which also directly or indirectly controls the first Person; and for the purposes of this definition, a Person controls another Person if such Person has the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the other Person, whether directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries or otherwise, and whether by ownership of shares or other equity interests, the holding of voting rights or contractual rights, by being the general partner of a limited partnership, or otherwise. “Person” means any individual, partnership, limited partnership, firm, trust, body corporate, government, governmental body, agency or instrumentality, unincorporated body of persons or association. “Change of Control” occurs whenever a legal or natural person (other than an Affiliate of that party) either ceases to have control of a party or acquires such control. “Buyer” means the purchaser of the Product and/or Services offered by Shell. “Services” means any services offered by Shell from time to time under this Agreement. “Delivery Promise” means any brochure of Shell (as may be updated and issued to Buyer from time to time) relating to supply of the Product and setting out details of such matters as ordering processes, delivery times, minimum orders and discounts. “Product” means any product offered by Shell from time to time under this Agreement. The words “include” and “including” shall be construed as being by way of illustration or emphasis only and shall not be construed as, nor shall they take effect as, limiting the generality of any preceding words. 2. Payment terms Payment for Product and/or Services shall be due in accordance with the payment terms agreed by Shell and Buyer which are confirmed on the invoice. Payment shall be made by direct debit unless otherwise agreed by Shell. If payment is not made in accordance with the agreed terms Shell reserves the right to claim interest or a late payment charge at an annual rate of the Prime Lending Rate (PLR) of the Reserve Bank of India + 2% on late payment and additional compensation for debt recovery costs but such rate and compensation shall be capped at the maximum permitted under applicable law. Where the last day for payment falls on a day other than a “Working Day” (meaning a day that is neither a Saturday or a Sunday or a public holiday in Shell’s principal place of business) then any such payment shall be made on the nearest preceding Working Day. Shell may at any time withhold and set off any sum due from Shell to Buyer against any sum due from Buyer or any of Buyer’s Affiliates to Shell under this Agreement or otherwise. 3. Credit limit & security At Shell’s request, Buyer shall provide all necessary financial documents relating to its business including financial performance data to Shell to enable credit assessment as per Shell credit policy and the decision of Shell credit team at their sole discretion on credit limit and credit terms shall be final and binding on the Buyer. Further, Shell shall have the discretion to downgrade the credit terms including credit limit at any time as per Shell’s independent assessment. If the Buyer fails to meet the requirements of Shell as per its credit policy, Shell shall be entitled to immediately suspend all supplies without being liable in any manner until such time as any default or situation has been remedied to Shell’s satisfaction. Unless specifically waived in writing by Shell, Buyer’s credit limit shall be fully secured by a bank guarantee, issued by a bank acceptable to Shell, or through such other forms of security as may be acceptable to Shell. 4. Prices Unless otherwise agreed in writing the prices to be charged for Product and/or Services will be Shell's current price list for Product and/or Service in question. Product uplifted by Shell at Buyer's request will be credited at the invoice price unless agreed otherwise with Shell. Buyer shall also be liable for relevant charges as advised by Shell in writing from time to time. If Buyer requires Shell to handle any compulsory stock obligations on the part of Buyer, that shall be subject to separate agreement and charges. 5. Taxes All amounts or values of consideration provided for in this Agreement are exclusive of any tax, duties, cess or levies including Value Added Tax (“VAT”), sales tax, entry tax or any other applicable taxes and levies chargeable under the applicable tax legislation and which shall be borne by Buyer. Payment of VAT, GST or a similar tax (if chargeable) shall be made by Buyer in addition to the value of the supply in the manner and at the same time as payment of the said value. Shell shall render a tax invoice that is in compliance with the requirements of the applicable tax legislation to Buyer. Buyer will indemnify Shell against all liabilities for any and all tax which Shell reasonably needs to pay to a third party due to any non compliance, breach or any reason attributable to the Buyer, including any interest, penalties and costs. If Shell is subsequently able to obtain a credit or repayment of such Tax from a third party, Shell shall reimburse Buyer the amount so credited or repaid less all reasonable costs, penalties and interest incurred by Buyer. 6. Quality All Product or Service shall conform to any specification or description set out in this Agreement and any Shell literature published in relation thereto as applicable from time to time. Product will be fit for the purpose set out in such literature and not for any other purpose whatsoever. The express terms and conditions of this Agreement shall apply in place of all warranties, conditions, terms, representations, statements, undertakings and obligations whether express or implied by statute, common law, custom, usage or otherwise, all of which are excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law. The express terms and conditions of this Agreement shall benefit only the direct purchaser of the Product and not any secondary or remote purchaser, provided that the Buyer shall ensure that in any resale by it of branded Product, the specifications, description and literature provided to the Buyer shall be conveyed with the Product. 7. Quantity and measurement Shell shall be responsible for measurement of the quantity of Product lifted for the purposes of preparing accounts which shall be conclusive and binding in the absence of manifest error on the part of Shell. Shell does not accept any responsibility whatever for discrepancies in Buyer's tanks, dip rods or other measuring devices or any discrepancies arising therefrom. The quantity of bulk Product actually lifted may vary by up to 5% (either way) from the quantity ordered by Buyer. Shell will charge the price for the quantity lifted but any load concessions agreed with Buyer for which the order might otherwise have qualified will still be applied. 8. Delivery With Shell's consent Buyer may collect Product itself or by sub-contractor directly from a designated Shell location. Upon taking delivery of the Product from Shell, Buyer shall be solely liable for all dealing with the Product, including all issues relating to transportation to its site, safety, leakage and environmental issues as per applicable laws Shell accepts no liability for any damage, losses, claims, liabilities, costs and expenses of any kind arising the provisions of this section 8. 9. Risk and title Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, risk in Product supplied shall pass to Buyer either on delivery or on collection by Buyer. Title to Product supplied shall pass to Buyer on payment of all debts due and owing by Buyer to Shell. Although Product supplied remains the property of Shell under this condition, Buyer may use them in the ordinary course of business. When any payment is overdue Shell will be entitled to take possession of the Products irrespective of its storage location as per due process of law and Buyer permits Shell to do so. All costs and expenses reasonably incurred by Shell in connection with taking such possession shall be paid by Buyer. Until such time as title in Product passes to Buyer, Buyer shall hold Product as Shell's fiduciary agent and bailee, and shall keep Product properly protected and insured and identified as Shell's property. In the event that any payment for Product is not made by the due date Shell shall at its absolute discretion either recover Product or maintain an action for the price and/or damages. 10. Shell containers and/or pallets If the Product is supplied in containers and/or on pallets Buyer shall ensure that appropriate facilities are available for off-loading and loading the containers and/or pallets. Buyer shall be responsible for the safe storage and handling of the containers and/or pallets while in its possession and shall not use them for any purpose other than the storage of Product supplied by Shell. Buyer shall notify Shell promptly when the containers and/or pallets are ready for collection and shall ensure that they are empty and safe to handle. Shell reserves the right to invoice Buyer for the costs to Shell of replacing lost or damaged containers or pallets at the costs prevailing at the time of loss or damage. 11. Availability Shell reserves the right to withdraw all or any Product and may from time to time change any specification to comply with any applicable safety or statutory requirements or if the changes do not materially affect their quality or fitness for purpose, in relation to any Product. Shell may discharge its obligations under this Agreement by supplying a different formulation of grade ordered or by supplying in substitution for that grade another Product or, in the case of that grade being ordered under or sold under a brand name, another Product or the same Product with another brand name provided that after substitution takes place the Product is in all material respects as suitable for the known purposes of the Customer as the original grade. Shell may make changes to the packaging of Product, including changes to design, size or weight and may cease to make available any Product in bulk. 12. Shell trade marks and formulations 12.1 “Shell Trade Marks” shall include the name “Shell”, the Shell pecten symbol and any other Shell trade mark, symbol or emblem. 12.2 Buyer shall use Shell Trade Marks only in such a manner as Shell may direct from time to time, and unless otherwise agreed with Shell in writing, nothing herein shall give the Buyer any proprietary interest in or title, claim, right or goodwill whatsoever to/in any Shell Trade Marks, including any right for the Buyer to apply any Shell Trade Marks to any products (including the Product or its derivatives), or to use Shell Trade Marks in relation to any products (including the Product or its derivatives). 12.3 If the Product bearing any Shell Trade Marks is to be sold on to any third party, the Buyer shall sell such Product only in the form in which Buyer received the Product from Shell, and the Buyer shall not add to, adulterate, alter or contaminate the Shell Trade Marks pertaining to the Product in any way whatsoever. Furthermore, the Buyer shall store, handle and transport the Product as instructed by Shell, or in any event in such a way as to maintain the Product in its original condition without deterioration. 13. Health, safety and environment 13.1 Shell’s Health, Safety and Environment policy (“HSEP”) are displayed on Shell’s website www.shell.com/sgbp (see “our commitments and standards”). Buyer and its officers, employees and agents shall use their best endeavours to ensure that their performance of this Agreement shall not cause Shell or its Affiliates to be in breach of the HSEP or any local laws and requirements as applicable. Buyer shall be responsible for ensuring that its employees, contractors and customers read and observe all instructions and recommendations in health and safety data sheets as issued by Shell from time to time. Buyer shall be fully liable for dealing with all issues relating to health, safety and environment issues upon taking delivery of the Products and shall be solely liable for it. 14. Force majeure 14.1 Neither Shell nor Buyer shall be liable for any failure to fulfil their respective obligations under a contract governed by these terms and conditions (other than the payment of money) if fulfilment has been delayed, hindered, interfered with, curtailed or prevented by any circumstance whatsoever which is not within the reasonable control of Shell (“Force Majeure Event”), including: (a) any act of God, fire, explosion, landslide or earthquake; or any storm, hurricane, flood, tidal wave or other adverse weather condition; or any war (whether declared or not), revolution, act of civil or military authority, riot, blockade, embargo, trade sanction, terrorism, sabotage, or civil commotion; or any epidemic or quarantine restriction; or (b) any curtailment, failure or cessation of supplies of labour, service, utility or facility, or raw material, feedstocks or other substances from which such Products are derived at any of Shell’s sources of supply (whether in fact sources of supply for the purposes of these terms and conditions are applicable or not) or packages into which they might be filled; or (c) any unavailability of or interference with the usual means of transporting the Products till the Shell supply location; or (d) any unplanned shutdown or shutdown in anticipation of a breakdown or malfunction affecting the plant or source of supply of Products; or (e) compliance with any law, regulation or ordinance, or with any order, demand or request of any international, national, port, transportation, local or other authority or agency or of any body or person purporting to be or to act for such authority or agency or any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any of them; or (f) The parties acknowledge that without prejudice to other cases and without limitation the closure or standstill of production facilities, depots or other delivery facilities of Shell shall be considered a Force Majeure Event. The parties further acknowledge that an inability to pay any sums due or other economic distress shall not be a force majeure event. The affected party shall provide a notice to the other party in writing of any such cause with necessary evidence that the obligation under this Agreement is thereby affected or prevented or delayed is given within 7 days from the happening of the event. 14.2 If by reason of any of the causes referred to in section 15.1 above, either the availability from any of Shell's sources of supply (wherever situated) of Products, whether deliverable under a contract governed by these terms and conditions or not, or the normal means of transport of such Products is delayed, hindered, interfered with, curtailed or prevented, then Shell shall be at liberty to withhold, reduce, suspend or cancel supplies under a contract governed by these terms and conditions; or apportion any reduced quantity of Products among itself and its customers and affiliates in any manner it determines to be fair and reasonable and to such extent as Shell may in its absolute discretion think fit, and Shell shall not be bound to acquire by purchase or otherwise additional quantities from other suppliers. Any additional quantities which Shell does acquire from other suppliers or from alternative sources may be used by Shell at its complete discretion and need not be taken into account by Shell for the purpose of determining the extent to which it is to withhold, reduce or suspend deliveries under a contract governed by these terms and conditions. As soon as the cause of Force Majeure has been removed, the Party whose ability to perform its obligations has been affected shall notify the other party of such cessation and inform the other Party through such notice the actual delay incurred in any such activity. Both Parties will resume their obligations in full at the earliest and not later than within 30 days of the date of the said notice of cessation of Force Majeure. 14.3 Buyer shall be free to purchase from other suppliers any deficiencies of deliveries of Products caused by a Force Majeure Event but Shell shall not be liable for any additional cost thereby incurred by Buyer. 14.4 Intentionally left blank 14.5 No curtailment or suspension of deliveries, or acceptance of deliveries, pursuant hereto shall operate to extend the term of a contract governed by these terms and conditions or to terminate such contract, unless such curtailment or suspension lasts for a continuous period of 30 days, in which case either party shall be entitled to terminate such contract forthwith on written notice to the other party. Neither Shell nor Buyer shall be liable for any damage, loss, expense, claim or costs incurred by the other party as a result of such termination. Such termination shall be without prejudice to any right, obligation or liability which has accrued prior to the effective date of such termination. Shipments of the Products or any portion thereof, the delivery or acceptance of which has been prevented by any of the causes referred to in section 15.1 above, shall be deducted from the amount required to be delivered and received hereunder unless otherwise agreed in writing. Performance under such contract shall resume to the extent made possible by the end or amelioration of the cause(s) referred to in section 15.1 above. 15. Suspension and termination 15.1 Without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available under this Agreement or at law, Shell shall be entitled to suspend supply of Product or Services or vary the stipulated method of payment if Buyer breaches any of its obligations under this Agreement. 15.2 Shell shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement on written notice to Buyer: (a) if Buyer stops or suspends or threatens to stop or suspend payment of all or a material part of its debts or is unable to pay its debts as they fall due; or if any steps are taken by Buyer for a moratorium in respect of or affecting all or substantially all of its debts; or any step is taken by any person including Buyer with a view to the administration, winding up or bankruptcy of Buyer; or any step is taken to enforce security over or a distress, execution or other similar process is levied or served against all or substantially all of the assets or undertaking of Buyer, including the appointment of a receiver, administrator, administrative receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, manager or similar officer; or any event or circumstance occurs which under the law of any relevant jurisdiction has an analogous or equivalent effect to any of the events listed above; (b) if Buyer commits any breach of any of its obligations under this Agreement (whether or not such breach would otherwise qualify as a repudiatory breach at common law) which is either incapable of remedy or if capable of remedy, is not remedied within 14 days of a notice having been served by Shell requiring remedy or commits a repetition of such breach; or (c) if Buyer fails to pay any sum due under this Agreement by the date it is due or its credit rating fails to meet the minimum requirements of Shell credit policy. 15.3 On termination of this Agreement all sums owed to Shell shall become immediately due and payable and Shell shall be entitled to recover and resell Product the property in which remains vested in Shell and Shell may enter upon Buyer's premises for that purpose. Any order for Product accepted by Shell which remains to be fulfilled may be cancelled at Shell’s option without liability on Shell’s part. 15.4 In the event of a termination of this Agreement for failure by Buyer to accept or lift Product or any other termination by Shell under this section 16, and without prejudice to any other rights and remedies available to Shell at law or elsewhere in this Agreement, Buyer shall pay Shell the value of the undelivered quantity of Product Buyer agreed to purchase from Shell in accordance with this Agreement (the “Undelivered Quantity Value”). Within fifteen (15) days of termination Shell shall notify Buyer of the Undelivered Quantity Value reasonably assessed by Shell as being equivalent to its expected net loss (or gain expressed as a negative number) incurred as a result of the termination of this Agreement including any and all losses, costs, damages, liabilities and expenses (including attorney’s fees) incurred by Shell (a) as a result of terminating, liquidating, obtaining or re-establishing any hedging arrangement or related trading position; and (b) by reasonably selling the undelivered Product on a basis other than the price calculation basis under this Agreement. 15.5 No payment is due from Shell or Buyer to the other if the early termination of this Agreement results in a gain for Shell rather than a loss. The parties acknowledge that the purpose of this section 16 is to establish a mechanism for the calculation of compensation when this Agreement is terminated early. Shell and Buyer accept that this section 16 provides for compensation which is reasonable and proportionate and hereby waive any right they each may have or acquire to contend that such paragraph is unenforceable as a penalty clause. 15.6 The provisions in these GT&Cs headed Definitions, Taxes, Product Discrepancy, Risk and Title, Shell Trademarks, Confidentiality, Trademarks and Formulations, Suspension and Termination, Liability and Indemnity, Applicable Law, Waiver, Invalidity, Information, Compliance with Laws, Licenses, Approvals, Export Controls shall survive any termination of this Agreement. 16. Liability and indemnity Buyer will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Shell, its Affiliates, directors and employees, against any liability (whether strict, absolute or otherwise) for any claim, loss, damage, cost, and/or expense and other costs of litigation on account of any injury, disease or death of persons (including Buyer's employees) or damage to property (including Buyer's property) or the environment arising out of or in connection with: (a) Buyer's unloading, storage, handling, sale, use or disposal of the Product except to the extent caused by Shell's negligence; and/or (b) Buyer’s negligence or any failure by Buyer to comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement; and/or (c) any failure by Buyer to disseminate safety and health information as provided above under section 14 Health, Safety and Environment. Shell will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Buyer, its Affiliates, directors and employees, against any liability (whether strict, absolute or otherwise) for any claim, loss, damage, cost, and/or expense and other costs of litigation on account of any injury, disease or death of persons (including Shell’s employees) or damage to property (including Shell’s property) or the environment to the extent arising out of or in connection with Shell’s negligence or any failure by Shell to comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, neither party shall be liable to the other party under or in connection with this Agreement for loss of actual or anticipated profit, losses caused by business interruption, loss of goodwill or reputation, or any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage EVEN if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by the parties and whether arising from breach of contract, negligence or other tort, breach of statutory duty or otherwise. Neither party excludes or limits its liability for fraud or death or for personal injury arising from its negligence or any liability to the extent the same may not be excluded or limited as a matter of law. This clause shall not affect the indemnities given in this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Shell’s and any Affiliate of Shell’s total liability for any claim arising out of or in connection with this Agreement for breach of contract, warranty or statutory duty or other tort including Shell’s negligence shall not exceed the sale price of the relevant delivery of Product, if delivered, or, if liability arises from a failure to deliver, the sale price of the Product had it been delivered and invoiced. Notice of Claims: Any claim under this Agreement shall be made by Buyer by written notice setting forth fully the facts on which it is based, immediately after the date when the facts were discovered or should have been discovered but in any event no later than 90 days after the delivery or loading date. 17. Notices Any notice shall be sufficiently given if sent by first class prepaid post, registered post, recorded delivery post or special delivery post, or delivered in person, or sent by email to the other party at the addresses or numbers specified in this Agreement or at the addresses or numbers subsequently specified from time to time by the party to whom the notice is addressed. Where so given notices sent by email shall be deemed received upon successful transmission evidenced by the sender's printed transmission report, and notices sent by post shall be deemed received on the fifth next postal delivery day after posting. Notices sent by other means such as electronic mail are permitted if they are not given by instant messaging and the sender bears the risk of non-receipt of any such notice. Notices shall be given in the English language. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section 18, the service of any document that initiates or is a part of litigation proceedings, claims, suits or actions shall be made in accordance with applicable law. 18. Waiver The failure or delay of either party in exercising any right, power or remedy provided by law or under this Agreement shall not affect that right, power or remedy or operate as a waiver of it. The single or partial exercise of any right, power or remedy provided by law or under this Agreement shall not preclude any other or further exercise of it or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. 19. Intentionally left blank 20. Amendment or modification No amendment or modification of any of the provisions of this Agreement or the rights or obligations of the parties shall be valid unless it is agreed in writing by and is signed on behalf of each of the parties, and specifically refers to this Agreement. 21. Invalidity If at any time any provision of this Agreement is or becomes illegal, invalid, void or unenforceable under the laws of any jurisdiction, the legality, validity and enforceability of the remainder of this Agreement in that jurisdiction shall not be affected, and the legality, validity and enforceability of the whole of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction shall not be affected. 22. Information Data supplied, whether personal or otherwise, by Buyer and/or which relates to Buyer’s account will be held and processed by computer or otherwise by Shell to operate Buyer’s account(s); to confirm, update and enhance Shell’s Buyer records; for statistical analysis; to establish any identity or otherwise as required under applicable legislation; to assess each Buyer’s credit status on an ongoing basis; and otherwise as considered necessary or appropriate by Shell. In each case the processing may continue after this Agreement has expired or has been terminated. Alternatively, Buyer may be requested to complete or fulfil other checks as may be necessary to satisfy credit assessments, money laundering or fraud detection requirements. Shell may disclose data relating to Buyer and/or a Buyer’s account(s) to (a) a credit reference agency where it may be accessed by other financial institutions to assist assessment of any application for credit made to Shell and for debt tracing and fraud prevention; (b) to any agent or sub-contractor of Shell performing services in connection with Buyer’s account; (c) to any person to whom Shell proposes to transfer any of its rights and/or duties under this Agreement; (d) to any guarantor or person providing security in relation to Buyer’s obligations under this Agreement; (e) as required or permitted by law or any regulatory authority; (f) as otherwise considered necessary or appropriate by Shell. Without prejudice to any other provisions for termination contained in this Agreement, all monies due and owing by Buyer to Shell shall become due and payable forthwith if Shell discovers that any information provided by Buyer to Shell is materially inaccurate. 23. Assignment Other than in case of any assignment or novation in favour of a Shell Afffiliate, each party shall obtain the written consent of the other party prior to and as a condition of the assignment or novation by the first party of any right, benefit and/or obligation under this Agreement (including rights to receivables). 24. Shell's principles and policies The Shell General Business Principles (“SGBP”) as displayed on Shell’s website www.shell.com/sgbp (see “our commitments and standards”) and Shell’s policy on Anti Bribery and Corruption (“ABC Policy”) as displayed shall be applicable to all dealings between Shell and Buyer. Buyer and its officers, employees and agents shall use their best endeavours to ensure that their performance of this Agreement shall not cause Shell or its Affiliates to be in breach of the SGBP or ABC Policy. Buyer and Shell will base their relationship on mutual respect, honesty, and integrity. 25. Temporary performance & modification A party unable to fulfil any of its obligations under this Agreement due to such a temporary shut down that is not necessitated by or considered to be a Force Majeure Event (as defined in section 15 of Part “A” of these GT&Cs entitled “Force Majeure”)(the “Impacted Party”) shall notify the other at least thirty (30) days in advance of the temporary shut down and shall include in the notice the estimated time when the Impacted Party can fulfil the obligations that were reduced or diminished by the temporary shut down. The obligations of the Impacted Party to sell or buy Product under this Agreement, as the case may be, and whose plant or facilities are temporarily shut down as aforesaid, shall be reduced or diminished but only to the extent necessitated by the temporary shutdown. After start-up, the Impacted Party shall use reasonable efforts to sell or buy, as the case may be, the quantities of Product that would have been sold or bought during the period of temporary shutdown. 26. New and changed regulations In the event that at any time and from time to time during the term of this Agreement any applicable laws, rules, regulations, decrees, agreements, concessions and arrangements (“Regulations”) are changed or new Regulations become effective, whether by law, decree or regulation or by response to the insistence or request of any governmental or public authority or any person purporting to act therefore, and the material effect of such changed or new Regulations (a) is not covered by any other provision of this Agreement, and (b) has a material adverse economic effect upon either party, the affected party shall have the option to request renegotiation of the prices or other pertinent terms provided for in this Agreement. The said option may be exercised by either party at any time after such changed or new Regulation is promulgated, by written notice of desire to renegotiate, such notice to contain the new prices or terms desired by the requesting party. If the parties do not agree upon new prices or terms within thirty (30) days after party give such notice, requesting party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement at the end of the said thirty (30) day period. Any Product lifted during such thirty (30) day period shall be sold and purchased at the price and on the terms applying hereunder without any adjustment in respect of the new or changed Regulations concerned. 27. Compliance with laws The parties shall comply with all applicable (including health, safety, security and environment) laws, governmental rules, regulations and orders. 28. Price reporting services If a price reporting service used in this Agreement is not available or ceases, or if the parties agree in writing that a price reporting service used in this Agreement is no longer appropriate for the purposes of this Agreement, the parties shall promptly meet to negotiate in good faith so as to agree upon another reliable publication for determination of the price. In the event the parties are unable to agree on a substitute price reporting service as provided above during a period of at least 30 days, either party may terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days’ notice to the other party. 29. Licenses, approvals, export controls and prohibited countries 29.1 Buyer undertakes to: (a) (i) obtain any and all import licences and government approvals that may be necessary to permit the sale by Shell and the purchase by Buyer of the Products, together with any approvals and consents required for the resale of Products hereunder; (ii) comply with all applicable registration requirements; (iii) obtain such approvals from banking and any governmental authorities as may be necessary to guarantee payment of all amounts due hereunder to Shell in the agreed currency; and (iv) comply with any and all governmental laws and regulations that may be applicable to Buyer by reason of its execution of this Agreement and including any laws, regulations or orders that govern or affect the ordering, export, re-export, diversion, trade, use, shipment, import, transportation, storage, sale (including government procurement) delivery or redelivery of the Products and any requirement to be registered as a re-seller of the Products with any governmental authority; and (v) not export, re-export, divert, trade, ship, import, transport, store, sell, supply, deliver or re-deliver, whether directly or indirectly, any of the Products to or for end use in any Prohibited Country or by any entity associated with any Prohibited Country (b)Buyer shall furnish Shell with such documentation as Shell may request to evidence Buyer’s compliance with this Clause and that controls are in place which actively support such compliance and agrees that it shall not engage in any course of conduct that, in Shell’s reasonable belief, would cause Shell to be in violation of the laws of any jurisdiction. In this Clause, “Prohibited Country” means a country on the following list of countries: Cuba, Iran, Sudan, Syria, Myanmar (Burma), North Korea and Libya, as such list may be amended by Shell from time to time by notice to Buyer.. 29.2 Buyer further undertakes that the prohibition stipulated in this section shall also be imposed by Buyer on any resale customers of Buyer, together with a communication to such resale customers to communicate such said prohibition on any resale customer of theirs. 30. Confidential information 30.1 “Confidential Information” shall include all commercial or business information in any format disclosed by the disclosing party either directly or indirectly to the receiving party, as well as all formulations, proprietary and technical information in any format, including any obtained by observation, concerning the Product and its use, acquired by the receiving party whether directly or indirectly from disclosing party or any Affiliates of the concerned disclosing party. Where work is undertaken for or under this Agreement using disclosing party’s Confidential Information and/or the Product, the results of such work or work product, in any format (collectively the “Results”), shall also be deemed disclosing party’s Confidential Information and shall be treated by the receiving party as such in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 30.2 The receiving party shall not, during the term of this Agreement or after its expiry, use Confidential Information other than as agreed with disclosing party, or disclose any Confidential Information to any third party without the prior written consent of disclosing party. 30.3 Such obligation of confidentiality shall not apply to any Confidential Information which the receiving party can prove to disclosing party by written evidence in all cases was, or has become, lawfully known to receiving party without binder of secrecy, or is/was publicly available through no act or omission on the part of receiving party. 30.4 Notwithstanding the other provisions of this clause, either party may disclose any such confidential information if and to the extent required by: (a) law or for the purpose of any judicial proceedings; (b) existing contractual obligations; (c) any securities exchange or regulatory or governmental body to which that Party is subject; (d) its professional advisers, auditors and bankers; or the information has come into the public domain through no fault of that Party; or the other Party has given prior written consent to the disclosure. 30.5 The receiving party may disclose Confidential Information to those of its employees that need to know Confidential Information to enable the receiving party to perform its obligations under this Agreement, and such employees are bound to the receiving party by obligations of confidentiality no less stringent than those under this Agreement. 30.6 The restrictions contained in this Clause shall continue to apply for a period of 3 years after the termination or expiry of this Agreement. 30.7 Buyer shall not mention Shell’s name or the existence of the Agreement in any publicity material or other communications to third parties without Shell’s prior written consent. 30.8 At the request and option of disclosing party, the receiving party shall either destroy or return promptly to the disclosing party, or its nominee, all tangible records containing Confidential Information as disclosed by disclosing party which is/are in the possession or control of the receiving party. 30.9 Where, under this Agreement, work is undertaken for or on behalf of Shell or any Affiliate of Shell using the Product, all right, title and interest in respect of the intellectual property rights pertaining to the Results shall vest exclusively in Shell, and shall be assigned to Shell promptly upon creating or generating to Shell by the Buyer, in any event. Buyer shall execute all instruments, deeds or actions necessary to vest such rights in Shell, and/or assist Shell as such. Buyer hereby irrevocably waives all moral or other non-transferable rights in the Results. 31. Entirety This Agreement (including all Appendices and any attachments thereto, and any other documents incorporated into this Agreement by reference) constitutes the whole agreement between Shell and Buyer and supersedes any and all prior agreements, pre-contractual statements, representations, arrangements, terms and understandings whether oral or written between the parties with regard to its subject matter unless otherwise provided for herein. To the extent of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any other agreement signed by duly authorised representatives of Buyer and Shell with respect to the purchase by Buyer of Products, the terms of the latter agreement shall apply. Each party acknowledges that it has not relied upon any pre-contractual statement, representation or promise in agreeing to enter into this Agreement. Except in the case of fraud, no party shall have any right of action against any other party arising out of or in connection with any pre contractual statement, representation or promise except to the extent that it is repeated in this Agreement. This Agreement (including all Appendices and any attachments thereto, and any other documents incorporated into this Agreement by reference) constitutes the whole agreement between Shell and Buyer and supersedes any and all prior agreements, pre-contractual statements, representations, arrangements, terms and understandings whether oral or written between the parties with regard to its subject matter unless otherwise provided for herein. To the extent of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any other agreement signed by duly authorised representatives of Buyer and Shell with respect to the purchase by Buyer of Products, the terms of the latter agreement shall apply. Each party acknowledges that it has not relied upon any pre-contractual statement, representation or promise in agreeing to enter into this Agreement. Except in the case of fraud, no party shall have any right of action against any other party arising out of or in connection with any pre contractual statement, representation or promise except to the extent that it is repeated in this Agreement. 32. Applicable law and disputes This Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with laws applicable in India. The United Nations Convention on contracts for the international sale of goods shall not be applicable to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated herein. All and any disputes or claims arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be exclusively referred to and finally resolved by arbitration in New Delhi in accordance with the Arbitration Rules of Indian Council of Arbitration for the time being in force, which rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this provision and the parties waive any objection to such proceedings on the grounds of venue or on the grounds that the proceedings have been brought in an inappropriate forum. All proceedings shall be conducted in the English language. The tribunal shall comprise of one arbitrator to be agreed between the parties and if not so agreed, to be appointed by the Chairman of the Indian Council of Arbitration. Subject to the arbitration provisions, the Courts at New Delhi only shall have jurisdiction on issues relating to this Agreement. General Terms & Conditions Applicable to Sale of Shell Marine Lubricants SupplyIn the absence of any Supply Agreement which has been signed on behalf of Shell and the Buyer, all Products and Services are supplied subject to Shell's General Terms and Conditions of Supply detailed below and (where relevant) the Delivery Promise (together this 'Agreement'). Without limitation, placing an order (which is subsequently accepted by Shell) and/or lifting and/or accepting the Product shall signify acceptance of this Agreement and shall override any other terms or conditions put forward by the Buyer. To the extent of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any other agreement signed by duly authorized representatives of Buyer and Shell, the terms of the latter agreement shall apply. This Agreement shall apply only to an individual order and supply of Products or services between Shell and the Buyer and shall not be construed as conferring an ongoing relationship or term contract between the Buyer and Shell. Shell has no obligation to accept any order from the Buyer and the Buyer has no obligation to place orders with Shell. Shell reserves the right to recover any loss it suffers as a result of the Buyer cancelling or amending an order after it has been submitted to and accepted by Shell. General Terms and Conditions of Sale 1. Definitions Unless the context otherwise demands: "Buyer" means the party requesting the Seller either to sell and deliver to it or the Owner, or to arrange for the sale and delivery to it or the Owner whichever is applicable, Marine Lubricants. “Delivery” means the delivery of Marine Lubricants to a Buyer’s or Owner's vessel at a Delivery Port in response to a Nomination. "Delivery Port" means the port or place at which Marine Lubricants are delivered to a vessel. “Energy Institute” means the leading professional body for the energy industries which was created in 2003 by the merger of the two key energy organisations - the Institute of Petroleum and the Institute of Energy - and which is based in London. "Marine Lubricants" means any of the products described in the Price List. “Nomination” has the meaning attributed to it in section 2. "Owner" means the party on whose behalf the Buyer is acting for and is the registered owner of the vessels with legal and beneficial ownership. "Pre-delivery Check List" means the check list prepared by Seller and signed by or on behalf of Seller and the Buyer to confirm agreement on the conditions and procedures under which physical delivery of the Marine Lubricants shall take place. “Pollution Event” has the meaning attributed to it in section 8.8(a). “Port Services Guide” means the Port Services Guide as amended, varied or supplemented from time to time, the current version of which can be found on Shell Marine website, containing lists of serviceable ports, available grades of Marine Lubricants, notification lead times, contact numbers, and other special conditions attaching to the particular port. “Price List” means the “Shell India Markets Pvt. Ltd. Price List” published by the Seller and as amended from time to time. “Prohibited Country” means (i) any country which at the time of disposal is declared or is declared an embargoed destination by the government(s) of the United States of America, the European Union or the country in which the Marine Lubricants are produced or from which the Marine Lubricants are exported; or which is a destination prohibited by the terms on which Seller has acquired the Marine Lubricants; and (ii) (without prejudice to subparagraph (i)) shall at all times include Iran, Sudan and Cuba and/ or any other countries as may be advised from time to time by the Seller in its discretion. “Shell Affiliate” means (i) Royal Dutch Shell plc and (ii) any company (other than the Seller) which is from time to time directly or indirectly controlled by Royal Dutch Shell plc. For this purpose:- (a) a company is directly controlled by another company or companies if that latter company beneficially owns or those latter companies together beneficially own fifty per cent or more of the voting rights attached to the issued share capital of the first mentioned company; (b) a company is indirectly controlled by another company or companies if a series of companies can be specified, beginning with that latter company or companies and ending with the first mentioned company, so related that each company of the series (except the latter company or companies) is directly controlled by one or more of the companies earlier in the series. “Ship’s Receipt” has the meaning attributed to it in section 9. 2. Nominations 2.1 The Buyer or his agent shall, by fax, email or the Seller’s designated web portals, give the Seller or its designated representative notice (a “Nomination”) of a requirement by a vessel for delivery of Marine Lubricants specifying grades, quantities, method of delivery and expected date of arrival at a Delivery Port. 2.2 Unless otherwise agreed, a Nomination shall always allow the minimum number of working day’s notice as indicated in the Port Services Guide. If any circumstances arise which prevent the Seller from making a delivery then the Buyer shall be informed. The Seller will make reasonable efforts to satisfy the Nomination but shall otherwise have no liability. 2.3 If the vessel has not arrived at the Delivery Port within ten days after the expected date of arrival notified pursuant to section 2.1, the Nomination will be considered as cancelled by the Buyer. The Buyer may modify the Nomination on reasonable notice to the Seller subject to the minimum number of working days’ notice as indicated in the Port Services Guide. The Buyer shall, in addition to any liability under these terms and conditions, be liable to the Seller for any expense incurred by the Seller as a result of the Nomination in circumstances where the Buyer has not cancelled or amended the Nomination, or given the Seller the minimum number of working days’ notice as indicated in the Port Services Guide. If the vessel arrives earlier than the expected date of arrival notified pursuant to section 2.1, the Seller shall exercise reasonable efforts to supply the vessel upon request but shall not be bound to do so until the expected date of arrival. 2.4 Where a Nomination gives notice of a requirement by a vessel for delivery in a Delivery Port of grades of Marine Lubricants that the Seller cannot supply in that Delivery Port from duty-free stocks, the Seller may advise the Buyer accordingly (which option must be exercised within a reasonable time) and upon such advice the Buyer may revise the Nomination. If the Buyer does not promptly revise the Nomination the Buyer shall be deemed to have requested to be supplied the grades in question from duty paid stocks and the provisions of section 4(e) shall apply. 3. Price and Price List 3.1 Except as otherwise agreed between Seller and the Buyer, the price to be paid for Marine Lubricants delivered hereunder shall be the price shown in the Price List valid on the date the Seller receives the Nomination from the Buyer. This price is valid for no longer than thirty (30) days after Nomination. In the event that delivery takes place after this thirty (30) day period, the price shown in the updated Price List will apply. 3.2 The Buyer shall be liable for all costs, expenses and/or charges incurred by Seller on account of the Buyer's failure, breach and/or non-compliance with its obligations under any Nomination as set out in section 2. 3.3 Unless otherwise agreed, the Seller will provide the Buyer with at least 30 days written notice of any proposed changes to the price to be paid for Marine Lubricants resulting from a price review and/or to the range of Marine Lubricants available. If in the Buyer’s opinion the increased prices are unreasonable, the Buyer may within 30 days of receiving such notification from Seller terminate the contract governed by these terms and conditions by giving 30 days written notice. 4. Charges In addition to the prices payable for Marine Lubricants, the Buyer shall pay to the Seller the following charges: (a) All charges listed in the Price List, including but not limited to, those for delivery ex-lighter / barge and packed deliveries; (b) Any expenses incurred as a result of the Master of the vessel rejecting, cancelling or significantly delaying the whole or any part of the delivery requested under a Nomination. (c) Any mooring or unmooring charges or port dues which may be incurred (whether at the Delivery Port or otherwise) in connection with any Delivery. (d) Any duties, taxes (other than taxes on profits), impositions, charges, freights, premiums, or other costs incurred by the Seller, or for which the Seller is accountable, in respect of a Delivery. For the avoidance of doubt, ‘taxes’ includes sales taxes, value added taxes and goods and services taxes. (e) Where the Seller delivers to the Buyer from duty paid stocks in accordance with section 2.4, the amount of such duty. (f) Any additional costs incurred in respect of a Delivery including but not limited to, payments for overtime, urgent order surcharge, small order surcharge, left-on-board surcharge, return order surcharge, and any associated surcharges. (g) Any additional charges detailed in the Port Services Guide and Price List. 5. Invoices 5.1 The Seller shall invoice the Buyer in Indian Rupees or in such other currency as may have been agreed between the Seller and the Buyer before delivery. 5.2 By agreement between the Seller and the Buyer the invoice may be submitted to the Buyer by electronic means including without limitation facsimile. 6. Payment 6.1 All money owed by the Buyer under a Nomination shall be paid to the Seller in the manner set out herein. 6.2 Payment by the Buyer shall be due in Indian Rupees according to Seller’s invoices, and without any discount, withholding, offset, counterclaim or allowance and shall be made by means of electronic wire transfer to the bank account stated on the invoice or any other bank accounts as may be advised by the Seller from time to time, such that funds are received into such account by the due date stated on the relevant invoice or as otherwise agreed with the Seller. Seller reserves the right to charge interest and delivery costs on any amounts not paid by such date at the higher of 2% per month and the maximum rate allowable under applicable law. Seller shall be responsible for the bank charges imposed by its own bankers. 6.3 Unless otherwise agreed between the Seller and the Buyer, all payments hereunder shall be due 30 days from the date of delivery. 6.4 The Buyer will execute any documentation required by the Seller in order to allow for an electronic wire payment to be made to the bank account specified on the Seller’s invoice. 7. Credit 7.1 If Marine Lubricants are supplied or to be supplied on credit and if the financial condition of the Buyer or the Owner becomes in the opinion of Seller impaired, or unsatisfactory, Seller may demand that payment be made at any time before the date due for payment whether before or after delivery of the Marine Lubricants or may demand the giving of such security as it may specify. 7.2 If at any time the Buyer or the Owner has exceeded any credit limit as set by Seller, Seller shall, in addition to any other remedy, be entitled to suspend deliveries under the Nomination concerned (in so far as they have not already taken place) or terminate under the Nomination concerned. If at any time the Buyer or the Owner fails to make any payment or give any security required (whether in terms of this section or not), the Seller shall, in addition to any other remedy, be entitled to suspend deliveries under the Nomination concerned (in so far as they have not already taken place) or terminate under the Nomination concerned and to assert all its rights against the vessel(s) concerned or the Owner. The Seller may also procure that any other Nomination between the Buyer and the Seller be suspended or terminated. In the event of such suspension or termination neither the Buyer nor the Owner shall have any recourse against the Seller. 8. Delivery and Health and Safety and Environmental Requirements 8.1 Subject to any special agreements between the parties as to the manner of delivery, the Seller shall arrange delivery in bulk or container at the nearest point to the vessel at which delivery is in the opinion of the Seller reasonably possible. 8.2 Subject to section 8.3, delivery of Marine Lubricants will be made during customary hours of work at the Delivery Port. 8.3 Delivery of Marine Lubricants may continue, if the Master of the vessel so requests, during night hours and religious and secular holidays (unless prohibited by laws or regulations applicable in the Delivery Port), in which event the Buyer shall reimburse Seller for all additional expenses incurred by Seller. 8.4 The vessel will be supplied as promptly as circumstances permit, but the Seller shall not be liable for any loss, expense, damage, delay or demurrage whatsoever which may be suffered by the Buyer as a result of any delay arising from congestion at the terminal or to prior commitments of available barges, or when in the Seller’s opinion clear and safe berth or the assistance of qualified staff to secure moorings is unavailable. 8.5 The Seller will deliver the Safety Data Sheets (SDS) to the Buyer in accordance with industry standards. The Buyer must ensure its vessels or customers receive the SDS before delivery of any Marine Lubricants and to provide any language translation as necessary. 8.6 (a) In any case where delivery is ex lighter, the Buyer shall provide free of cost a clear and safe berth for the lighter(s) alongside the vessel's receiving lines and the assistance of qualified staff to secure the lighter(s) moorings. The receiving vessel shall provide a safe access to the lighter. This safe access means the use of the accommodation ladder. If the position of the lighter does not fit with the position of the accommodation ladder a pilot ladder should be rigged up. The receiving vessel is responsible for a safe access to and from the lighter. Vessels, including tankers, will be bunkered in turn as promptly as circumstances permit but the Seller shall not be liable for demurrage or for any loss, expense, damage or delay due to congestion at the terminal or to prior commitments of available barges, or when in the Seller’s opinion clear and safe berth or the assistance of qualified staff to secure moorings is unavailable. The Seller shall further have the right to refuse an ex-pipe delivery if the Buyer’s vessel is deemed unsafe to receive such a delivery according to Seller’s vetting process using industry-recognized databases. (b) The Buyer will also provide ready and safe means of access to any equipment used for delivery of the Marine Lubricants at the Delivery Port and shall not obstruct access to the same. Delivery will not commence until such time as the Pre-delivery Check List has been jointly and satisfactorily completed and signed by or on behalf of both the Seller and the Buyer. 8.7 The Seller shall not be required to supply or arrange to supply Marine Lubricants for the export of which a government permit is required but which has not been obtained by the Buyer or the Buyer's accredited representative. 8.8 If in the course of any delivery under a Nomination there is any escape or spillage of Marine Lubricants: (a) The Buyer agrees that, if a Pollution Event occurs before, during or after delivery of the Marine Lubricants, Seller may at its sole discretion take reasonable steps to control and terminate the Pollution Event, contain and remove the escaped Marine Lubricants and clean the affected area. The Buyer must provide Seller its reasonable co-operation in implementing steps under this section. If the Pollution Event is caused by an act or omission of the Buyer, its servants or agents (other than Seller), the Buyer must indemnify Seller for the cost of any steps taken under this section 8.8(a). If the Pollution Event is caused by an act or omission of the Seller, its servant or agent, then the Seller must indemnify the Buyer on the same basis as per the immediate above. In this section 8.8(a), "Pollution Event" means any occurrence as a result of which the Marine Lubricants escaped onto or into land or water. (b) The Buyer or his agent shall supply the Seller with any documents and information concerning the same or any programme for the prevention thereof as are requested by the Seller or are required by law or regulations applicable at the Delivery Port. 8.9 The Buyer shall be fully responsible for the proper use, maintenance, and repair of any equipment that may be used for the delivery. The Buyer will immediately inform Seller of any defects, ruptures, spills, or other problems with or related to such equipment which occurs during the delivery process. 8.10 The Seller and the Buyer represent to each other that they are in compliance with all applicable laws and government regulations with respect to the environment and that they have policies of environmental responsibility in place concerning their respective Marine Lubricants processes. 9. Documents On completion of a Delivery of Marine Lubricants to a vessel under a Nomination, the Master of the vessel or the Buyer's accredited representative shall sign a receipt for the grades and quantities delivered in a form required by the Seller (“Ship’s Receipt”) of which two copies shall be retained by the Master or such representative. 10. Risk and Title 10.1 Except as may be otherwise agreed, delivery of Marine Lubricants at a Delivery Port shall be deemed to be complete and title and risk shall pass to the Buyer either: (a) for bulk Deliveries, when the Marine Lubricants pass the flange connecting the delivery facilities with the receiving facilities provided by the Buyer; or (b) for delivery in containers: i) when delivering to a quay or other point on land when the goods are landed from the delivery vehicle to the ground; ii) when delivering by a barge operated by the Seller and using the Seller’s barge’s lifting equipment, when the goods are landed on the deck of the customer vessel; iii) when delivering by barge or vehicle and using Buyer provided and operated lifting equipment, when the goods are lifted off the deck of the barge or off the vehicle; or iv) when delivering by barge and Buyer has contracted a third party service provider or operator to provide pump ex-drum service, immediately prior to such pump ex-drum service. 10.2 The responsibility for connecting the bulk delivery facilities provided by the Seller to the receiving facilities provided by the Buyer shall be in accordance with the custom of the Delivery Port. Quality The Marine Lubricants to be supplied hereunder shall conform with any specification or description agreed between Seller and the Buyer in relation to the Marine Lubricants, including the specification or description set out in the “Typical Physical Characteristics” section of any applicable Technical Specification Data Sheet(s) contained in the Port Services Guide. This section constitutes the whole of Seller’s obligations with respect to the quality of the Marine Lubricants to be supplied and (save to the extent that exclusion thereof is not permitted or is ineffective by operation of law) all statutory or other conditions and/or warranties, express or implied, with respect to the description or quality of the Marine Lubricants or its fitness for any purpose are hereby excluded. Measurement and Samples/Quantity and Quality Claims 12.1 The quantity to be entered on the Ship’s Receipt shall be in accordance with the measurements of the Seller. The quantities of Marine Lubricants delivered shall be measured by volume, and calculated at standard temperature at 15 degrees Celsius in accordance with the ASTM - IP Petroleum Measurement Tables or the methods of any other recognized standards authority at the discretion of the Seller. 12.2 The Buyer or Buyer's accredited representative shall be at liberty to witness and check the weights and measurements at the time of delivery. 12.3 If the Buyer’s representative or the Master of the vessel disputes the quantity delivered in any Delivery, he may at the time of signing the Ship’s Receipt (but not later) annotate the Ship’s Receipt accordingly, giving brief particulars of the quantity he alleges to have been delivered. 12.4 A clean Ship’s Receipt once signed shall be conclusive evidence of the quantity delivered unless the party challenging the receipt can prove manifest error. In the event that a Ship’s Receipt is annotated in accordance with section 12.3 above, Buyer shall be required to make timely payment in accordance with Seller’s figures (which shall in the absence of contrary proof be deemed correct) provided that such payment shall not prejudice Buyer’s right to make any claim with respect to quantity provided further that such claims shall be made in writing (in addition to the Ship’s Receipt annotation) as soon as possible and in any event within thirty days of the date of delivery, in default of which the Buyer shall be deemed to have waived such complaint or claim. Any unresolved disputes shall be determined in the same manner as set out for quality disputes in section 12.8 below. 12.5 During bulk deliveries, the Seller shall take three representative samples of the Marine Lubricants. The Buyer or its representative will be provided the opportunity to witness the taking of such samples. One sealed sample shall be handed to the Master of the vessel receiving the Marine Lubricants and the other two retained by the Seller for a 30 day period or the minimum period allowable under applicable law, whichever is the longer, from the date of delivery in a safe place where they will not deteriorate. At the end of the said period the remaining samples may be discarded unless the Buyer has made a complaint or claim under section 12.6 within the said period, in which case one of the samples shall be retained by the Seller for its own use and the other sample shall be retained by the Seller for analysis by the expert referred to in section 12.8. 12.6 Any complaint or claim on the part of the Buyer with regard to the quality of Marine Lubricants delivered must be made to Seller in writing as soon as possible and in any event within 30 days after the date of delivery, in default of which the Buyer shall be deemed to have waived all complaints or claims in relation to the quality of the Marine Lubricants so delivered. 12.7 No claim for any defects in quality may be made in respect of Marine Lubricants that have been transported or stored in containers provided by the Buyer. 12.8 Any dispute as to quantity or quality of Marine Lubricants delivered shall, save for in instances of manifest error or fraud, be determined finally and conclusively by an independent expert appointed jointly by the Buyer and the Seller or, if they cannot agree to such an appointment, then an expert appointed by the President for the time being of the Energy Institute. In the case of quality disputes, the expert shall be requested to analyse one or more of the quality samples taken in accordance with section 12.5 above and where possible, base his or her decision upon the results thereof. Technical Service 13.1 In addition to technical advice and services which may be provided by the Seller upon the Buyer’s request and at its cost (which advice and service shall be provided not pursuant to these terms and conditions but pursuant to a separate services agreement), the Buyer may avail himself of certain technical advice and services which are provided free of charge by the Seller. Such free services are provided voluntarily and not as an obligation under this contract. 13.2 The Seller shall not be liable for any loss or damage suffered by the Buyer or its servants or agents in respect of or arising from the provision by the Seller of any advice or services provided voluntarily as aforesaid. Restrictions on Use To the extent that Marine Lubricant is sold or to be sold to the Buyer on a duty or tax exempt basis, Buyer shall comply with all local requirements and shall execute all such documents necessary to permit the sale on such basis, including any declarations on use of the Marine Lubricant. To the extent that a claim is made by any authorities against the Seller on the basis that such Marine Lubricant was liable for duty or taxes and such claim arose partly or wholly due to the action, omission or fault of the Buyer, then the Buyer shall indemnify Seller against any claims, losses, costs (including costs as between Attorney or Solicitor and Client), damages, liabilities, fines, penalties and expenses attributable to such action, omission or fault of the Buyer. 15. Exceptions 15.1 Neither the Seller nor the Buyer shall be responsible for any failure to fulfil their respective obligations under a contract governed by these terms and conditions (other than the payment of money) if fulfilment has been delayed, hindered, interfered with, curtailed or prevented by any circumstance whatsoever which is not within the reasonable control of the Seller or the Buyer, including: (a) any act of God, fire, explosion, landslide or earthquake; or any storm, hurricane, flood, tidal wave or other adverse weather condition; or any war (whether declared or not), revolution, act of civil or military authority, riot, blockade, embargo, trade sanction, terrorism, sabotage, or civil commotion; or any epidemic or quarantine restriction; or (b) any curtailment, failure or cessation of supplies of Marine Lubricants or the petroleum or other substances from which such Marine Lubricants are derived or any of the Seller’s sources of supply (whether in fact sources of supply for the purposes of these terms and conditions or not) or packages into which they might be filled, provided that such curtailment, failure or cessation is related to a circumstance which is outside the reasonable control of the Seller; or (c) compliance with any law, regulation or ordinance, or with any order, demand or request of any international, national, port, transportation, local or other authority or agency or of anybody or person purporting to be or to act for such authority or agency or any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any of them; or (d) any strike, lock-out or labour dispute (whether or not the Seller or the Buyer as the case may be is party thereto or would be able to influence or procure the settlement thereof). 15.2 The performance of any obligation, whether arising out of any contract, arrangement or otherwise, by which any authority, agency, body or person is entitled to require and does require any Marine Lubricants by way of royalty in kind shall be deemed to constitute a compliance with an order or request as provided in section 15.1(c). 15.3 If by reason of any of the causes referred to in section 15.1 above, either the availability from any of the Seller's sources of supply (wherever situated) of Marine Lubricants, whether deliverable under a contract governed by these terms and conditions or not, or the normal means of transport of such Marine Lubricants is delayed, hindered, interfered with, curtailed or prevented, then the Seller shall be at liberty to withhold, reduce, suspend or cancel supplies under a contract governed by these terms and conditions to such extent as the Seller may in its absolute discretion think fit, and the Seller shall not be bound to acquire by purchase or otherwise additional quantities from other suppliers. Any additional quantities which Seller does acquire from other suppliers or from alternative sources may be used by the Seller at its complete discretion and need not be taken into account by the Seller for the purpose of determining the extent to which it is to withhold, reduce or suspend deliveries under a contract governed by these terms and conditions. 15.4 The Buyer shall be free to purchase from other suppliers any deficiencies of deliveries of Marine Lubricants caused by the operation of section 15.3 but Seller shall not be responsible for any additional cost thereby incurred by the Buyer. 15.5 The Seller reserves the right to increase the price charged for any Marine Lubricants (whether the price was originally determined by reference to the Seller’s prices or separately agreed in writing) if there is any increase in the costs incurred or to be incurred by the Seller in making the relevant supply due to factors which are beyond the control of the Seller. These factors include without limitation any increased taxes, duties, the making of any law, order, bye-law or other regulation, the occurrence of any currency fluctuation affecting the cost of any imported items. 15.6 No curtailment or suspension of deliveries, or acceptance of deliveries, pursuant hereto shall operate to extend the term of a contract governed by these terms and conditions or to terminate such contract, unless such curtailment or suspension lasts for a continuous period of 30 days, in which case either party shall be entitled to terminate such contract forthwith on written notice to the other party. Neither the Seller nor the Buyer shall be liable for any damage, loss, expense, claim or costs incurred by the other party as a result of such termination. Such termination shall be without prejudice to any right, obligation or liability which has accrued prior to the effective date of such termination. Shipments of Marine Lubricants or any portion thereof, the delivery or acceptance of which has been prevented by any of the causes referred to in section 15.1 above, shall be deducted from the amount required to be delivered and received hereunder unless otherwise agreed. Performance under such contract shall resume to the extent made possible by the end or amelioration of the cause(s) referred to in section 15.1 above. 16. Indemnity/Liability 16.1 (a)The Buyer will indemnify the Seller against any claims, losses, costs (including costs as between Attorney or Solicitor and Client), damages, liabilities, fines, penalties and expenses incurred or sustained arising out of or in connection with a contract governed by these terms and conditions and/or a Nomination (including but not limited to recovery of any sums due hereunder) for claims, losses, costs, damages, liabilities and expenses that arise through the negligent act or omission of the Buyer. (b)The Seller will indemnify the Buyer against any claims, losses, costs (including costs as between Attorney or Solicitor and Client), damages, liabilities, fines, penalties and expenses incurred or sustained arising out of or in connection with a contract governed by these terms and conditions and/or a Nomination (including but not limited to recovery of any sums due hereunder) for claims, losses, costs, damages, liabilities and expenses that arise through the negligent act or omission of the Seller . 16.2 The Seller shall have no liability to the Buyer, and the Buyer shall have no liability to the Seller under or in connection with a contract governed by these terms and conditions and/or a Nomination for: (a) loss of actual or anticipated profit; (b) losses caused by business interruption; (c) loss of goodwill or reputation; or (d) any indirect, special, extraordinary or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by the Seller or the Buyer and whether arising from breach of contract, tort, negligence, breach of statutory duty or otherwise. 16.3 Without prejudice to the above provisions, the Seller’s maximum aggregate liability to the Buyer, and the Buyer’s maximum aggregate liability to the Seller, under or in connection with any delivery howsoever arising shall not exceed in aggregate the price payable by the Buyer for such delivery. Agents If a Nomination is made by an agent acting for or on behalf of the Buyer, whether such agency is disclosed or undisclosed then such agent shall be liable (as well as the Buyer) not only as agent but also as principal for the performance of all the obligations of the Buyer. 18. Governing Law and Jurisdiction The provisions hereof shall be governed by the law of India and except as provided in section 12.8 herein, any time arise between the parties hereto touching or concerning the agreement, meaning, operation or effect thereof or to the rights and liabilities of the parties or dispute arising out of or in connection with a contract governed by these terms and conditions, including any question regarding its existence, validity or termination, shall be referred to and finally resolved by arbitration under the LCIA India Rules, which Rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this section 18. The number of arbitrators shall be one. The seat, or legal place, of arbitration shall be Mumbai. The language to be used in the arbitration shall be English. For the avoidance of doubt, the UN Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (1980) shall not apply. Notices 19.1 Except where expressly stated otherwise, a notice, demand, request, statement, or other communication under or in connection with these terms and conditions shall only be effective if it is in writing. Faxes and e-mail are permitted provided however that any notice of breach sent by email must be followed by a fax or letter. 19.2 Notices, demands, requests, statements, or other communications under or in connection with these terms and conditions shall be sent to a party at the addresses or numbers specified from time to time by the party to whom the notice is addressed. 19.3 Any notice given under a contract governed by these terms and conditions shall be effective only upon actual receipt at the appropriate address specified as per section 19.2. 19.4 Any notice given under a contract governed by these terms and conditions outside working hours in the place to which it is addressed shall be deemed not to have been given until the start of the next period of working hours in such place. 19.5 No notice given under a contract governed by these terms and conditions may be withdrawn or revoked except by notice given in accordance with this section. 19.6 Where a Nomination is made by an agent acting for the Buyer then notice may be given either to the agent or to the Buyer at the option of the Seller. 20. Succession and Assignment 20.1 Any contract governed by these terms and conditions shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties and their respective successors and assigns. The Buyer shall not assign all or any part of the benefit of, or any rights or benefits under, a contract governed by these terms and conditions without the prior written consent of the Seller, which consent shall not be unnecessarily or unreasonably withheld or denied. 20.2 The Seller may at any time assign all or any part of the benefit of, or its rights or benefits under, a contract governed by these terms and conditions. Seller may at any time sub-contract or enter into any arrangement whereby another person is to perform any or all of its obligations under a contract governed by these terms and conditions. 21. Prohibited Countries 21.1 Buyer acknowledges that it is familiar with and will comply with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the use, diversion, trade, export or re-export of Marine Lubricants. Without prejudice to the foregoing, where requested to do so by Seller, Buyer will supply Seller with evidence that controls are in place, which actively support such compliance 21.2 Without prejudice to section 21.1, Buyer undertakes not to export, re-export, divert, trade, ship, import, transport, store, sell, supply, deliver or re-deliver, whether directly or indirectly, the Marine Lubricants to or in any Prohibited Country and not to do the same to or for the end use by any entity or vessel associated with any Prohibited Country. 21.3 If Buyer is, or is likely to be, prevented by any law, policy, demand or request to which it is subject or any governmental policy, demand or request by which Buyer reasonably considers it is bound, from complying with the above, then (without prejudice to Buyer’s obligations as set out in this section 21) Seller and Buyer shall meet and discuss the implication for Buyer and Seller and, pending resolution of any difficulty which such law causes or is likely to cause, Seller may at its discretion, and without liability therefore, suspend in whole or in part supplies hereunder without prejudice to any claims that Seller may have under this Agreement. 21.4 Buyer further undertakes that the prohibition stipulated in this section 21 shall also be imposed by Buyer on any resale customers of Buyer, together with a communication to such resale customers to communicate such said prohibition on any resale customer of theirs. 22. New and Changed Regulations 22.1 It is understood by the parties that the parties are entering into a contract governed by these terms and conditions in reliance on the laws, rules, regulations, decrees, agreements, concessions and arrangements (hereinafter called “Regulations”) in effect on the date hereof with governments, government instrumentalities or public authorities affecting the Marine Lubricants sold hereunder including, but without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, those relating to the production, acquisition, gathering, manufacturing, transportation, storage, trading or delivery thereof, insofar as such Regulations affect Seller. 22.2 In the event that at any time and from time to time during the term of a contract governed by these terms and conditions any Regulations are changed or new Regulations become effective whether by law, decree or regulation or by response to the insistence or request of any governmental or public authority or any person purporting to act therefore, and the effect of such changed or new Regulations (a) is not covered by any other provision of these terms and conditions, and (b) has a material adverse economic effect upon either Seller or the Buyer, then Seller or the Buyer (as the case may be), shall have the option to request renegotiations of the prices or other pertinent terms provided for in these terms and conditions. Said option may be exercised by the relevant party at any time after such changed or new Regulation is promulgated, by written notice of desire to renegotiate, such notice to contain the new prices or terms desired by that party. If the parties do not agree upon new prices or terms within thirty (30) days after the relevant party has given such notice, that party shall have the right to terminate a contract governed by these terms and conditions at the end of the said thirty (30) day period. Any Marine Lubricants lifted during such thirty (30) day period shall be sold and purchased at the price and on the terms applying hereunder without any adjustment in respect of the new or changed Regulations concerned. 23. Information 23.1 Data supplied, whether personal or otherwise, by Buyer and/or which relates to Buyer’s or Owner's account will be held and processed by computer or otherwise by the Seller to operate Buyer’s or Owner's account(s); to confirm, update and enhance the Seller’s customer records; for statistical analysis; to establish any identity or otherwise as required under applicable legislation; to assess Buyer’s or Owner's credit status on an ongoing basis; and otherwise as considered necessary or appropriate by the Seller. In each case the processing may continue after the relevant contract governed by these terms and conditions has ended. Alternatively, the Buyer or the Owner may be requested to complete or fulfill other checks as may be necessary to satisfy credit assessments, money laundering or fraud detection requirements. 23.2 The Seller may disclose data relating to the Buyer and/or Buyer’s account(s) and/or Owner's account(s) to (a) a credit reference agency where it may be accessed by other financial institutions to assist assessment of any application for credit made to the Seller and for debt tracing and fraud prevention; (b) to any agent or sub-contractor of the Seller performing services in connection with the Buyer’s or the Owner's account; (c) to any person to whom the Seller proposes to transfer any of its rights and/or duties under a contract governed by these terms and conditions; (d) to any guarantor or person providing security in relation to Buyer’s or Owner’s obligations under a contract governed by these terms and conditions; (e) as required or permitted by law or any regulatory authority; (f) as otherwise considered necessary or appropriate by the Seller. 23.3 Without prejudice to any other provisions for termination contained in a contract governed by these terms and conditions, all monies due and owing by the Buyer and/or the Owner to the Seller shall become due and payable forthwith if the Seller discovers that any information provided by the Buyer or the Owner to the Seller is materially inaccurate. 24. Confidentiality 24.1 Each party shall treat as confidential all information obtained as a result of entering into or performing a contract governed by these terms and conditions which relates to: (a) the subject matter of these terms and conditions; or (b) the other party. 24.2 Each party shall: (a) not disclose any such confidential information to any person other than any of its directors or employees who needs to know such information in order to discharge his/her duties; (b) not use any such confidential information other than for the purpose of satisfying its obligations under a contract governed by these terms and conditions; and (c) procure that any person to whom any such confidential information is disclosed by it complies with the restrictions contained in this section as if such person were a party to a contract governed by these terms and conditions. 24.3 Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, either party may disclose any such confidential information: (a) if and to the extent required by law or for the purpose of any judicial proceedings; (b) to its affiliates (including Shell Affiliates), professional advisers, auditors and bankers; (c) if and to the extent the information has come into the public domain through no fault of that party; or (d) if and to the extent the other party has given prior written consent to the disclosure, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. Any information to be disclosed pursuant to sub-section 24.3(a) shall be disclosed only after notice to the other party. 24.4 The restrictions contained in this section shall continue to apply after the termination of a contract governed by these terms and conditions without limit in time. 25. Waiver The failure of either of the parties to enforce any of the provisions of any contract governed by these terms and conditions at any time shall not be construed as a waiver of that provision unless specifically as notified by that party in writing which expressly states it is a waiver. No waiver of any breach of a contract shall be held to be a waiver of any other breach or a continuing waiver of any further breach of a contract. 26. Severability The validity of the provisions of a contract governed by these terms and conditions shall not be affected if any particular provision or provisions of the contract is or are declared illegal, unenforceable, or contrary to law or public policy. If as a result of a specified declaration any of the rights or obligations of a party are materially affected, then the parties shall meet and negotiate in good faith in order to arrive at an amendment of the provisions(s) of the contract so affected, in such manner as will most closely and accurately reflect the intents and purposes of the contract. 27. Amendments & Variations These terms and conditions may not be amended or modified orally and no amendment or modification shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed by authorised representatives of each of Seller and the Buyer. 28. Termination 28.1 Either party may terminate a contract governed by these terms and conditions for any reason by giving not less than 3 months’ prior written notice to the other party. 28.2 Without prejudice to any other rights and remedies, either party may by notice to the other party terminate a contract governed by these terms and conditions with immediate effect if: (a) the other party is in breach of any of its obligations under a contract governed by these terms and conditions and fails to remedy such breach within 30 days after written notice of the existence of such breach; (b) the other party should go into liquidation or should do or suffer any similar act or thing under any applicable law, such as (a) the making of a general assignment for the benefit of creditors by the other party; or (b) the entering into of any arrangement or composition with creditors (other than for the purposes of a solvent reconstruction or amalgamation); or (c) the institution by the other party of proceedings seeking to adjudicate the other party as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking protection or relief from creditors, or seeking liquidation, winding up, or rearrangement, reorganization or adjustment of the other party of its debts (other than for purposes of a solvent reconstruction or amalgamation), or seeking the entry of an order for the appointment of an administrator, a receiver, trustee or other similar official for the other party or for all or a substantial part of the other party’s assets; or (d) the institution of any proceeding of the type described in (c) above against the other party; or (e) there is a Change in Control of the other party; or (c) where applicable, any of the events described in paragraph (b) happens to or in relation to the Owner. 28.3 Subject to section 28.4, a Change of Control shall occur for the purpose of these terms and conditions where: (a) a person acquires control of the Buyer where no person previously had control of the Buyer; or (b) the ultimate parent company of the Buyer ceases to have control of the Buyer; or (c) a person acquires Control of the ultimate parent company of the Buyer; or (d) a person who is not under the control of the ultimate parent company of the Buyer acquires control of the Buyer. 28.4 For the purposes of these terms and conditions, Control means, in relation to any company, having legal and beneficial ownership of not less than 50 percent of the voting rights attached to the issued share capital of that company. 28.5 On termination of a contract governed by these terms and conditions all sums owed to Seller shall become immediately due and payable. 28.6 Without prejudice to any other rights or remedies, Seller may suspend deliveries or vary the stipulated method of payment with immediate effect if the Buyer is in breach of any of its obligations under any contract governed by these terms and conditions. #TheWinningIngredient Contest Terms and ConditionsTerms and Conditions. How to Enter: Facebook Participants must like the contest post on Facebook. Participants must share their answer entry in the comment section of the contest post using #TheWinningIngredient. Twitter Participants must follow @Shell_India Participants must retweet the contest tweet Participants must tweet their answer entry to @Shell_India using #TheWinningIngredient Contest Duration: The duration of the contest is from 19th Sep to 24th Sep 2016. One winner will be announced through a wall post on Facebook and a Tweet at the end of the contest. Eligibility: The Competition is open to all Maharashtra, India residents’ aged 18 or over on the Competition start date. Eligibility requirements include a valid residential address, contact number and e-mail id and Facebook/Twitter account Participation in this contest is purely voluntary. No purchase is necessary for participating in the Competition and it is open to all including the persons who have not purchased Shell products in the past. Shell shall not charge any amount for participation in the contest and the sole criteria for participation shall be submitting entries in the manner stipulated below. Employees of Shell & organizations related to the contest and their families are excluded from entering the Competition. General Terms and Conditions: This contest will be governed by these standard terms and conditions. Each participant agrees that he/she has read and understood these terms and by their participation in the contest, each participant agrees to be bound by the terms. Mere participation should not be perceived as any commitment on the part of Shell to select a participant as the winner. Nothing herein amounts to a commitment by Shell to conduct further, similar or other contests in future. This promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with, Facebook or Twitter. Any questions, comments or complaints regarding the promotion will be directed to Sponsor, not Facebook or Twitter. Incomplete information provided or failure to provide true and accurate information as stated in these terms and conditions, failure to submit proof of identification and/or original confirmation number upon collection of the Prize will automatically disqualify the participant. Shell shall have the absolute and sole discretion to determine whether any participant should be disqualified by reason of failure to abide by these terms and conditions, bad faith, fraud or any other legitimate reason Multiple Facebook comment entries* and Tweets on the contest post per person during the Contest Period will be entertained Shell reserves the right to change the terms and conditions of this contest, including extending, withdrawing or discontinuing the same without notice, without assigning any reason, at its sole discretion without any liability.. There is no cash alternative to the stated prizes, and the prizes are non-transferable and non-refundable. Shell reserves the right to substitute either any part of Prize or whole Prize for similar prize of equal or greater value. Shell shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever for any claims, losses, damage, costs or expenses in connection with or arising from this Competition, the redemption or use of the Prizes. To the extent only permitted by applicable law, Shell reserves the right to use the winner’s image, photograph, name and likeness in post-promotion publicity material and in advertising, marketing or promotional material in any media by any means throughout the world for any purpose connected with the products/services of Shell or any company within the Royal Dutch/Shell Group of companies without additional compensation or prior notice to the winner and all participants consent to the same. Copyrighted, obscene, provocative or otherwise questionable content will not be considered. Shell India retains sole discretion as to what constitutes inappropriate content. In the event of any inconsistency between these terms and conditions and any advertising, promotional, publicity and other materials relating to or in connection with this promotion, these terms and conditions shall prevail. Shell reserves the right to request proof of a participant's eligibility in the event that there is a doubt over his/her eligibility for the promotion. Subject to applicable laws, Shell shall not be liable for any losses, taxes, liabilities or inconvenience suffered by any participant as a result of these terms and conditions, entering into this Competition or accepting any part of the Prize Shell shall not be liable under or in connection with these terms and conditions or for this Competition or using the Prize for any indirect, special or consequential cost, expense, loss or damage even if such cost, expense, loss or damage was reasonably foreseeable or might reasonably have been contemplated by the participant and Shell and whether arising from breach of contract, tort, negligence, breach of statutory duty or otherwise. Shell India accepts no responsibility for difficulties experienced in submitting an entry to this Contest. Shell does not accept responsibility for (1) lost, late or undelivered entries or (2) any technical or access issue, failure, malfunction or difficulty that might hinder the ability of a participant to enter the Competition or (3) any event which may cause the Competition to be disrupted or corrupted. In addition to these terms & conditions, other specific terms may be imposed by Shell from time to time to deal with any unforeseen situation. Shell also reserves the absolute right to change the terms and conditions contained herein and, or, any other rules and regulations in respect of the Competition at any time without any notice, the itinerary, without assigning any reason and without any liability whatsoever. Participants are requested to refer to such other terms and conditions, if any, which may be intimated separately as Shell considers fit. However, no obligation is cast on Shell to separately intimate each individual participant with regard to such additional terms and conditions. Shell may (i) extend (ii) terminate or suspend the Competition at any time due to circumstances beyond its control (iii) substitute a prize (or any part of a Prize). The participant(s) hereby give express permission to Shell to freely distribute its submission in any publication and media whether online, offline or on the Internet. Material sent to Shell including feedback and other communications of any kind as well as submission of an entry to this Competition shall be deemed to be non-confidential. Shell shall be free to reproduce, distribute and publicly display such feedback, materials without limitation or obligation of any kind. Shell is also free to use any ideas, concepts, know-how or techniques contained in such submissions or materials for any purpose. Each participant understands that each of the officials of Shell engaged in the organization and management of this Competition including its directors, officers, partners, employees, consultants, and agents are under no obligation to render any advice or service to any participant in respect of this Competition The participant undertakes to indemnify and keep Shell harmless and indemnified against any loss, damage, claims, costs and expenses which may be incurred or suffered by Shell due to breach of any of the terms and conditions herein contained. Any disputes, differences and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of this Promotion and, or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue of arbitration shall be New Delhi. The Promotion shall be governed by and construed in accordance with applicable laws in India and will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Bangalore alone. The Rules of Indian Council of Arbitration(“Rules”) shall apply to the arbitration proceedings and the arbitration shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator to be appointed as per the Rules. Each participant must ensure that his or her participation in the promotion is lawful in accordance with the laws of India. Neither Shell nor its representatives or agents shall be taken to make any representations, express or implied, as to the lawfulness of any participant's participation in the Competition Entrants are deemed to accept these terms and conditions by entering the Contest. One Winner of the contest will be selected basis a lucky draw of the answer entries that fulfil the eligibility criteria. The Winner will be eligible to a trip sponsored by Shell to Malaysia MotoGP in Sepang. The prize is limited to Air Travel from Mumbai to Kuala Lumpur, Bus travel from Kuala Lumpur to Sepang, Accommodation and Meals as mentioned in the itinerary and Tickets to MotoGP in VIP. All mentioned arrangements will be made by Shell after receiving the necessary details from the winner as per the below mentioned itinerary. Trip Itinerary: 28th October: Late night flight from Mumbai (Malindo). Transfers arranged from Pune. 29th October: Early morning arrival in KL. Check into Hotel Renaissance. Breakfast, Lunch and Welcome Dinner on Day 1. Day free for leisure. 30th October: MotoGP in VIP Suite. Lunch at MotoGP. Dinner at Hotel. Transfers arranged. 31st October: Checkout from hotel. The prize is limited to the above mentioned expenses/itinerary and any additional expenses incurred by the winner during the trip will not be paid by Shell. Each participant consents to the use of information supplied by the participant in any media for future promotional, marketing and publicity purposes without any further reference or payment or other compensation to the participant, by Shell. The decision of Shell will be final and binding. To claim the prize: The winner needs to submit all the details as per the requirements of Shell and within the stipulated timeframes in order to claim the prize. The winner will be notified by Facebook message/Tweet via IBW’s Facebook/Twitter accounts. Shell will endeavor to contact the Winner in and around 5-10 working days after announcing the winners. General terms and conditions for the sale of Shell lubricantsApplicable to sale of Shell branded lubricants In the absence of any Supply Agreement which has been signed on behalf of Shell and the Buyer, all Products and Services are supplied subject to Shell's General Terms and Conditions of Supply detailed (Detailed) and (where relevant) the Delivery Promise (together this 'Agreement'). Without limitation, placing an order (which is subsequently accepted by Shell) and/or lifting and/or accepting the Product shall signify acceptance of this Agreement and shall override any other terms or conditions put forward by the Buyer. To the extent of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any other agreement signed by duly authorized representatives of Buyer and Shell, the terms of the latter agreement shall apply. This Agreement shall apply only to an individual order and supply of Products or services between Shell and the Buyer and shall not be construed as conferring an ongoing relationship or term contract between the Buyer and Shell. Shell has no obligation to accept any order from the Buyer and the Buyer has no obligation to place orders with Shell. Shell reserves the right to recover any loss it suffers as a result of the Buyer cancelling or amending an order after it has been submitted to and accepted by Shell. Privacy notices Your personal data We would like to inform you about the personal data collected about you by a company or companies within the Shell group of companies (‘Shell’), for which purposes and your rights in this respect. Please select the Privacy Notice(s) relevant to you from those below. These Privacy Notices may be supplemented by local/additional notices. These Notices are also available in local languages (where applicable) from the relevant Shell country website. Shell has adopted Binding Corporate Rules which provide a privacy compliance framework which has been approved by the Dutch Data Protection Authority such that Shell companies are able to lawfully transfer personal data to other companies within the Shell group in compliance with EU data protection law. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions or concerns related to the processing of your personal data – contact details are provided in the relevant Privacy Notice below and from the Shell country website for your location. Motorist, Loyalty customer, Shell App user Information for individuals who are or were a retail customer, member of a Shell loyalty program, visitor to a Shell website and/or user of a Shell digital application. Job applicant Information for individuals who apply to work for, or who attend a recruitment event or undertake an assessment with Shell. Business customer, supplier, partner or investor Information for individuals connected with our business customers (B2B), suppliers, business partners, stakeholders and/or investors. Current or former Shell employee, contractor or dependent Information for individuals who are or were employees, interns or individual contractors as well as dependents of Shell employees. Motorist, Loyalty customer, Shell App userInformation for individuals who are or were a retail customer, member of a Shell loyalty program, visitor to a Shell website and/or user of a Shell digital application. This notice sets out what personal data we collect, for what purposes and your rights in this respect. What does this Privacy Notice cover? This Privacy Notice provides information regarding the processing of your personal data when using services and/or purchasing products from or on behalf of a company or companies within the Shell group of companies (‘Shell’ or ‘we’) whether as: (i) a retail, energy or e-mobility customer; (ii) a member of any Shell loyalty program marketed / branded under any name whatseover in your location (‘Shell Loyalty Programme’); (iii) a visitor to a Shell website (‘Website’ or ’Shell Website’); and/or (iv) a user of the Shell Application or other Shell applications (‘Shell App). As well as this Privacy Notice, bespoke privacy notices and supplementary privacy statements may contain further information about how Shell is processing your personal data. This would be the case for example if you are an energy or e-mobility customer. In those instances, such privacy notices will be communicated to you separately. This Privacy Notice explains what personal data are processed about you; why we are processing your personal data and for which purposes; for how long we hold your personal data for; how to access and update your personal data, as well as the options you have regarding your personal data and where to go for further information. If personal data of children is gathered this requires consent of the parent or guardian. Special Notice - if you are under 18 years old. Processing children’s personal data Except in those cases where Shell organizes educational events specifically designed for children, we do not intentionally collect personal data of individuals under 18 years old. If you are under 18 years old please do not send us your personal data for example, your name, address and email address. If you wish to contact Shell in a way which requires you to submit your personal data (such as for education or innovation events) please get your parent or guardian to do so on your behalf. This section describes the different sources from which we collect your personal data. What personal data do we process about you? Collection of information We collect information, including personal data about you, as a Shell customer, user of Shell Apps and/or visitor to a Shell Website or Shell administered social media page (‘Shell Social Media Page’). This information may be either: Information that you provide to us - when creating a Shell account profile, we will ask for your name, e-mail address and gender (so that we can address you properly but you do not have to provide us with this information), your contact preferences and information necessary for answering any security questions. If you decide to become a member of a Shell Loyalty Programme, a user of Shell Apps, Shell Drive services or our mobile payments, we may ask you to provide further personal data necessary for the performance of such services and/or authentication such as type of vehicle, driver pattern, date of birth (if collected), communications preferences and mobile number; Information that we obtain through your use of Shell services - we will also collect information about how and where you use or purchase Shell services and products. Such information may include electronic device information, IP addresses, log information, browser type and preferences, location information, online identifiers to enable ‘cookies’ and similar technologies. Your purchase history includes data regarding (i) specific products you buy, (ii) the total amount of your purchases per transaction, (iii) the time and place of the purchases you make and (iv) the payment method you use, including payment methods embedded in the Shell Apps (such as mobile payment option); If you are a member of a Shell Loyalty Programme - we will collect information about your participation in these programs; this includes data regarding (i) the type and description of the award you have chosen, (ii) the awards you have chosen, (iii) the amount of points you have redeemed, (iv) the frequency and time of redemption of your points and (v) the delivery method used to provide you with your award (if any). If you are a user of Shell Drive we will collect your recorded journeys, including your vehicle co-ordinates, speed and acceleration, comparing this against other users (if you have consented to the collection of such information, including your location); Information gathered through external sources - in order to ensure we have the most up to date information about you to provide you with better products and increasingly tailored services, we will combine information that we hold about you, with additional information which is publicly available or obtained through authorised third parties (such as Experian or Acxiom). This includes information about your shopping habits and related products or services that you may use, such as the number of household cars that you possess or the types of cars that you are interested in; or Information gathered through social media pages - When you communicate with us through a Shell Social Media Page (for example, when you comment on, share or react to a post , upload media, send a personal message or subscribe to a Shell Social Media Page), we may receive personal data about you such as your user name, profile picture, hometown, email address and gender. We will use any personal data received from social media in accordance with this Privacy Notice. Shell view of the customer With the aim of ensuring you have a seamless experience with the Shell group, and depending upon the nature of your engagement with Shell, we combine information gathered from the sources referred to above to create a personal profile of you. This enables you to interact with different Shell companies more easily and ensures we have the most up to date information about you in order to better develop services and products and to tailor offers relevant to your specific interests. Please note however, you have the ability to control how Shell uses this information. You can opt out of having your personal data combined in this way - Please see the section below We only process your personal data where we have a lawful basis to do so. Why do we process your personal data? The personal data covered by this Privacy Notice are only processed: with your explicit consent; where it is necessary to conclude a transaction with you (such as payment information); where it is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the relevant Shell company/companies, except where such interests are overridden by your interests or fundamental rights and freedoms; or where it is necessary for Shell to comply with a legal obligation. Where the processing is based on consent, you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time. This will not affect the validity of the processing prior to the withdrawal of consent. What are the consequences of not providing your personal data? Where you choose not to provide us with information set out above for the purposes of using a Shell App or participating in a Shell Loyalty Programme the only consequence is that it will affect your ability to fully interact with the Shell App and/or to participate in the Shell Loyalty Programme. Who is responsible for any personal data collected? Shell India Markets Private Limited, an Indian company with registered number U23201TN2004PTC053147, and registered office at 2nd Floor, Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia Business Park, 143, Dr MGR Road, Perungudi, Chennai - 600 096, India, will be responsible for processing your personal data, either solely or jointly with its affiliates within the Shell group of companies. The purposes for which we process your personal data. For what purposes do we process your personal data? We process your personal data for the purposes of: providing our products and delivering our services to you; managing relationships and marketing such as maintaining and promoting contact with you; account management including account verification (that is, ensuring that only you or someone you have authorized can access your account and information); customer service and development of our products and services; performance of and analysis of market surveys and marketing strategies; promotions and contests offered to Shell customers, including offering you digital rewards to recognise you as a valued customer; or detecting or preventing fraud if you use a mobile payment function to purchase Shell products. We may also process your personal data for a secondary purpose where it is closely related, such as: storing, deleting or anonymising your personal data; audits, investigations, dispute resolution or insurance purposes, litigation or defence of claims; statistical, historical or scientific research; or legal and/or regulatory compliance. Communication and marketing - your choices If you have consented to receive communications from Shell (or if you have previously purchased goods/and or services from us and permitted by local law), you may receive offers that are tailored towards your preferences based on the information gathered about you from the various sources described above in order to provide you with better products and increasingly tailored services. We may send you service updates and notifications without your advance consent only where such updates and/or notifications are necessary for the proper functioning of the Shell Apps or other services that you use. You may receive pertinent offers and communications by different channels and you may update your subscription preferences via your personal profile settings anytime or use the unsubscribe functionality for the different digital channels. Transaction security and preventing, detecting and investigating fraud When you use a mobile payment application to purchase Shell productsyou may be asked to provide additional personal details to complete the transaction. We may use the personal data you provide to prevent, detect and investigate fraud and to enforce the terms and conditions of the mobile payment application. We may share some information with the service providers involved in mobile payments (such as PayPal), including but not limited to your IP address, device ID or unique identifier, loyalty card number for the purposes detailed above as well as for the purposes of collecting points, device type, geo-location information, connection information (for e.g. wi-fi) and mobile network information. Your rights and how to exercise them. Your rights in relation to your personal data We aim to keep our information as accurate as possible. You can request: access to your personal data; correction or deletion of your personal data (but only where it is no longer required for a legitimate business purpose such as completing a retail transaction); that you no longer receive marketing communications; that the processing of your personal data is restricted; combining of your personal data from different sources to create a personal profile no longer takes place; and/or that you receive personal data that you have provided to Shell, in a structured, digital form to be transmitted to another party, if this is technically feasible. To make any of these requests please go to your Shell account profile or please contact us at SITI-MLM-Support@shell.com in this respect. Who can you contact if you have a query, concern or complaint about your personal data? If you have any issues, queries or complaints regarding the processing of your personal data, please contact us at SITI-MLM-Support@shell.com for further information or for submitting such requests. You may also contact the Shell Group Chief Privacy Office at Shell International B.V. The Hague, The Netherlands - Trade Register No. 27155369 Correspondence: PO Box 162, 2501 AN, The Hague, at privacy-office-SI@shell.com. If you are unsatisfied with the handling of your personal data by Shell, then you have the right to lodge a complaint to the Dutch Data Protection Authority whose address is Prins Clauslaan 60, 2595 AJ The Hague, The Netherlands. Please visit https://autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/en for more information. We use cookies on our websites to provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookies and similar technologies Shell uses cookies and similar technologies that collect and store information when you visit a Shell Website or use a Shell App. This is to enable Shell to identify your internet browser and collect data on your use of our website, which pages you visit, the duration of your visits and identify these when you return so that we improve your experience when visiting our website(s). You can control and manage your cookies preferences by adjusting your browser settings or using the Shell cookies preference tool on Shell Websites – for more information, please refer to the Shell Cookie Policy at https://www.shell.in/cookie-policy.html. Shell is committed to safeguarding your personal data. Security of your personal data We have implemented technology and policies with the objective of protecting your privacy from unauthorised access and improper use. In particular, we may use encryption for some of our services, we apply authentication and verification process for access to Shell services and we regularly test, assess and evaluate the effectiveness of our security measures. Who do we share your personal data with? Who will we share your personal data with? Your personal data are exclusively processed for the purposes referred to above and will only be shared on a strict need to know basis with: Other companies within the Shell group of companies, including to those which may be located outside of your location; With your consent, authorized third party companies in co-operation with Shell that may supply products and/or services to users of Shell Apps and Shell Loyalty Programmes; Authorized service providers involved in mobile payments (such as PayPal, Apple Wallet or Android Pay); Authorised agents, licensees, service providers, external auditors and/or subcontractors of Shell; A competent public authority, government, regulatory, supervisory, investigative or fiscal agency where it is necessary to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation to which the relevant Shell company/companies is subject to or as permitted by applicable law; or Any person to whom Shell proposes to transfer any of its rights and/or duties. Your personal data may be transferred outside of your country, subject to appropriate safe Transfers of your personal data to other countries Where your personal data have been transferred to companies within the Shell group and/or to authorized third parties located outside of your country we take organizational, contractual and legal measures to ensure that your personal data are exclusively processed for the purposes mentioned above and that adequate levels of protection have been implemented to safeguard your personal data. These measures include Binding Corporate Rules for transfers among the Shell group and for Shell companies in the European Union, European Commission approved transfer mechanisms for transfers to third parties as well as any additional local legal requirements. You can find a copy of Shell Binding Corporate Rules at https://www.shell.in/privacy.html or by contacting privacy-office-SI@shell.com. Interacting with Shell through social media If you choose to interact with Shell through social media on a Shell administered social media page such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter or LinkedIn, your personal data (such as your name, your profile picture and the fact that you are interested in Shell) will be visible to all visitors of your personal webpage depending on your privacy settings on the relevant social media platform, and will also be visible to Shell. You can delete any information that you share on these sites at any time through your relevant social media platform’s account. Shell does not track your activity across the different social media sites that you use. If you send a message to Shell via any messanger service on a social media platform, these messages are held for no longer than one month after receipt. Please contact Shell if you wish to make a request that you are unable to action yourself and which relates to a Shell Social Media Page - See the section below. Additionally and to the extent Shell is jointly responsible with a social media platform of a Shell Social Media Page, Shell will have access through the social media platform to aggregated data providing statistics and insights that help to understand the types of actions you take on Shell Social Media Pages. For more information on how your personal data are processed on those social media platforms, including any targeted advertising that you may receive, please refer to your privacy settings accessible through your relevant social media platform’s account. Shell will only hold your personal data for a defined period of time. How long do we hold your personal data for? Personal data processed by Shell in line with this Privacy Notice will be deleted or rendered anonymous (such that it will no longer be possible to identify you); (1) every 5 years where you remain a customer during this period; (2) without undue delay upon you requesting that your Shell account profile is deleted or to discontinue your participation in a Shell Loyalty Programme; or (3) after 3 years for all subscribed services from our last interaction with you (that is where you have not used our services for 3 years). In relation to financial transactions (including those made through a Shell App), your personal data will be held for 10 years from the transaction. In all cases information may be held for (a) a longer period of time where there is a legal or regulatory reason to do so (in which case it will be deleted once no longer required for the legal or regulatory purpose) or (b) a shorter period where the individual objects to the processing of their personal data and there is no longer a legitimate business purpose to retain it. This Privacy Notice is updated over time. Changes to this Privacy Notice This Privacy Notice may be changed over time. You are advised to regularly review this Privacy Notice for possible changes. This Privacy Notice was last updated in August 2019. Job applicantInformation for individuals who apply to work for, or who attend a recruitment event or undertake an assessment with Shell. This notice sets out what personal data we collect, for what purposes and your rights in this respect. What does this Privacy Notice cover? This Privacy Notice provides information about personal data which are processed by a company or companies within the Shell group of companies (‘Shell’ or ‘we’) in relation to individuals who apply to work for, or who attend a recruitment event or undertake an assessment with Shell. This includes prospective employees, interns and contractors. For individuals who are successful in their application for employment, internship or engagement as a contractor, the Privacy Notice - Shell Group Employee, Contractor and Dependents’ Personal Data available at https://www.shell.in/privacy/ex-employee-notice.html will apply. As well as this Privacy Notice, bespoke privacy notices and supplementary privacy statements may contain further information about how Shell is processing your personal data. In those instances, such privacy notices will be communicated to you separately. This Privacy Notice explains what personal data we process about you, why we are processing your personal data and for which purposes, how long we hold your personal data for, how to access and update your personal data, as well as the options you have regarding your personal data and where to go for further information. Who is responsible for any personal data collected? Shell India Markets Private Limited, an Indian company with registered number U23201TN2004PTC053147, and registered office at 2nd Floor, Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia Business Park, 143, Dr MGR Road, Perungudi, Chennai - 600 096, India, will be responsible for processing your personal data, either solely or jointly with its affiliates within the Shell group of companies. If personal data of children is gathered this requires consent of the parent or guardian. Special Notice - if you are under 18 years old and wish to apply for a Shell sponsored education or innovation event Except in those cases where Shell organizes educational events specifically designed for children, we do not intentionally collect personal data of individuals under 18 years old. If you are under 18 years old please do not send us your personal data for example, your name, address and email address. If you wish to contact Shell in a way which requires you to submit your personal data (such as for education or innovation events) please get your parent or guardian to do so on your behalf. The categories of personal data we collect about you. What personal data do we process about you? Collection of information We process personal information relating to individuals who apply to work for, or who attend a recruitment event and/or undertake an assessment (‘Applicants’). This includes personal contact information, date of birth, whether you have the legal right to work in the country in which you have applied, your application for employment, your qualifications and experience, results of interviews and assessments. Sensitive personal data For the purposes of recruitment, special categories of data (‘sensitive personal data’) including personal data regarding health data may be processed only as strictly required and as permitted or required by local law for the purposes of making adjustments to the recruitment process, for assessing eligibility for positions and fitness to work and provision of facilities in the workplace to accommodate health problems or for the establishment, exercise or defense of claims. In addition, in order to ensure equal employment opportunities as permitted or required by local law, we may also gather additional sensitive personal data regarding Applicants, including their nationality, racial and/or ethnic origin. The purposes for which we process your personal data. For what purposes do we process your personal data? We process your personal data for the following purposes: Human Resources, personnel management, business process execution and internal management - including resource planning, and recruitment; Health, safety and security - including protection of an individual’s life or health, occupational health and safety, protection of Shell’s assets and staff, authentication of individual status and access rights; Legal and/or regulatory compliance - including compliance with legal or regulatory requirements; or Management reporting and analysis - including statistical analysis and surveys regarding the quality of the recruitment process. We may also process your personal data for a secondary purpose where it is closely related, such as: storing, deleting or anonymising your personal data; fraud prevention, audits, investigations, dispute resolution or insurance purposes, litigation and defence of claims; or statistical, historical or scientific research. Pre-screening of Applicants We carry out screening of all Applicants who we intend to make an offer of employment, engagement or internship (as the case may be) and prior to any offer being confirmed for the purposes of: verifying the information that an Applicant provides during the screening/interview process. This will include verifying information with current/previous employers and educational institutions. No steps will be taken in this respect until the Applicant confirms the verification can take place; screening Applicants against publicly available or government issued sanctions lists and media sources. This is to comply with legal and regulatory obligations, to protect Shell’s assets and employees/contractors and specifically to ensure that Shell can comply with trade control, anti-money laundering and/or bribery and corruption laws and other regulatory requirements. Automated decision making and profiling All applicants must answer questions which are necessary to ensure that individuals can lawfully enter into a contract with a Shell company if they are successful in their application. In addition, for graduate hires, we utilize an online assessment tool which scores individuals on their suitability for employment, based on automated decision making to ensure objectivity. In those cases, you will be notified of this and you will have the opportunity to have such automated decisions reviewed by or on behalf of a member of the Shell recruitment team. Save for graduate hires or as specifically notified to you in a bespoke privacy notice or a supplementary privacy statement during the recruitment process, no profiling or automated decision making will take place to determine suitability or eligibility for employment or engagement as a contractor. We will only process your personal data where we have a lawful basis to do so. Why do we process your personal data? We only process personal data of Applicants: in order to take steps at the request of the Applicant prior to entering into a contract; where it is necessary to comply with a legal obligation to which the relevant Shell company/companies is subject to ensure compliance with applicable employment, social security laws and regulations; where it is necessary for the legitimate business interests of Shell (such as ensuring compliance with legal obligations other than those related to employment or social security, the protection of Shell assets, reputation and Shell employees and contractors) except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the Applicant; or (only if legally required) with the explicit consent of the Applicant. In those cases where processing is based on consent and subject to applicable local law which provides otherwise, you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time. This will not affect the validity of the processing prior to the withdrawal of consent. Who do we share your personal data with? Who will we share the personal data with? Your personal data are exclusively processed for the purposes referred to above and will only be shared on a strict need to know basis with: Other companies within the Shell group of companies, including to those which may be located outside of your location; Authorized third party agents, service providers, external auditors and/or subcontractors of Shell in particular authorised third parties who carry out reference and background checks on behalf of Shell; A competent public authority, government, regulatory or fiscal agency where it is necessary to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation to which the relevant Shell company/companies is subject to or as permitted by applicable law; or Any person to whom Shell proposes to transfer any of its rights and/or duties. Interacting with Shell through social media If you choose to interact with Shell through social media on a Shell administered social media page (‘Shell Social Media Page’) such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter or LinkedIn, your personal data (such as your name, your profile picture and the fact that you are interested in Shell) will be visible to all visitors of your personal webpage depending on your privacy settings on the relevant social media platform, and will also be visible to Shell. You can delete any data that you shared on these sites at any time through your relevant social media platform’s account. Shell does not track your activity across the different social media sites that you use. If you send a message to Shell via any messanger service on a social media platform, these messages are held for no longer than one month after receipt. Please contact Shell if you wish to make a request that you are unable to action yourself and which relates to a Shell Social Media Page - see the section below Additionally and to the extent Shell is jointly responsible with a social media platform of a Shell Social Media Page, Shell will have access through the social media platform to aggregated data providing statistics and insights that help to understand the types of actions you take on Shell Social Media Pages. For more information on how your personal data are processed on those social media platforms, including any targeted advertising that you may receive, please refer to your privacy settings accessible through your relevant social media platform’s account. Your personal data may be transferred outside of your country, subject to appropriate safeguards. Transfers of your personal data to other countries Where your personal data have been transferred to companies within the Shell group and/or to authorized third parties located outside of your country we take organizational, contractual and legal measures to ensure that your personal data are exclusively processed for the purposes mentioned above and that adequate levels of protection have been implemented in order to safeguard your personal data. These measures include Binding Corporate Rules for transfers among the Shell group and for Shell companies in the EU, European Commission approved transfer mechanisms for transfers to third parties as well as any additional local legal requirements. You can find a copy of Shell Binding Corporate Rules at www.shell.in/privacy.html or by contacting privacy-office-SI@shell.com. Shell is committed to safeguarding your personal data. Security of your personal data We have implemented technology and policies with the objective of protecting your privacy from unauthorised access and improper use and will update these measures as new technology becomes available, as appropriate. Shell only holds your personal data for a defined period of time How long do you hold my personal data for? We hold personal data of unsuccessful Applicants for at least six (6) months but no longer than three (3) years after the recruitment process or assessment has been completed. If you are successful in your application, the personal data gathered through the recruitment process will be retained in line with the Privacy Notice - Employee, Contractor and Dependents’ Personal Data, which is available at https://www.shell.in/privacy/ex-employee-notice.html and from the website in your location. What are the consequences of not providing your data? Personal data requested and provided by Applicants are required in order to fulfil legal requirements and/or which is required for entering into a contract with you (or in the case of a contractor your employer/service provider). Failure to provide us with the information requested which is limited to that required for these purposes will negatively affect your chances of being selected for any potential employment, engagement or internship. Your rights and how to exercise them. Your rights in relation to your personal data We aim to keep our information about you as accurate as possible. You can request: access to your personal data; correction, or deletion of your personal data (but only where they are no longer required for a legitimate business purpose); that the processing of your personal data is restricted; and/or that you receive personal data that you have provided to Shell, in a structured, digital form to be transmitted to another party, if this is technically feasible. To make any of these requests, please contact http://www.shell.in/careers/contact-us.html. Who can you contact if you have a query, concern, complaint, about your personal data? If you have any issues, queries or complaints regarding the processing of your personal data please contact Privacy-Office-SI@shell.com. You may also contact the Shell Group Chief Privacy Officer at Shell International B.V. The Hague, The Netherlands - Trade Register, No. 27155369 Correspondence: PO Box 162, 2501 AN, The Hague. If you are unsatisfied with the handling of your personal data by Shell, then you have the right to lodge a complaint to the Dutch Data Protection Authority whose address is Prins Clauslaan 60, 2595 AJ The Hague, The Netherlands. Please visit https://autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/en for more information. Special Notice - For any technical issue with regards to your recruitment process or in case of questions or comments regarding job opportunities at Shell, please contact us at: Shell Careers SSSCMLA-HRVO/N-T1 careers@shell.com. We use cookies on our websites to provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookies and similar technologies Shell may use cookies and similar technologies that aim to collect and store information when you visit a Shell website. This is to enable Shell to identify your internet browser and collect data on your use of our website, which pages you visit, the duration of your visits and identify these when you return so that we improve your experience when visiting our website(s). You can control and manage your cookies preferences by adjusting your browser settings or using the Shell cookies preference tool on Shell websites - for more information, please refer to the Shell Cookie Policy at http://www.shell.in/cookie-policy.html. This Privacy Notice is updated over time. Changes to this Privacy Notice This Privacy Notice may be changed over time. You are advised to regularly review this Privacy Notice for possible changes. This Privacy Notice was last updated in August 2019. Business customer, supplier, partner or investorInformation for individuals connected with our business customers (B2B), suppliers, business partners, stakeholders and/or investors. This notice sets out what personal data we collect, for what purposes and your rights in this respect. What does this Privacy Notice cover? This Privacy Notice provides information regarding the personal data which are processed by a company or companies within the Shell group of companies (‘Shell’ or ‘we’) in relation to (i) individuals who work for, or on behalf of, or who are shareholders of our business customers (‘Business Customers’), (ii) suppliers or vendors (‘Suppliers’), (iii) business partners, including within non Shell-operated joint ventures, as well as investors and shareholders (‘Business Partners’). For individuals who require access to a Shell site on behalf of a Business Customer, Supplier or Business Partner you will be asked to provide additional information to enable you to be identified for health, safety and security purposes and to manage the relationship between Shell and the relevant Business Customer, Supplier or Business Partner. For further information please refer to the Privacy Notice - Shell Group Employee, Contractor and Dependents’ at https://www.shell.in/privacy/ex-employee-notice.html. For individual retail customers, members of Shell loyalty programs, visitors of Shell websites or users of Shell applications, please refer to the Privacy Notice - Motorists at https://www.shell.in/privacy/b2c-notice.html. For individuals who apply to work for Shell, or who attend a recruitment event or undertake an assessment please refer to the Privacy Notice - Shell Group Recruitment at https://www.shell.in/privacy/job-applicant-notice.html. As well as this Privacy Notice, bespoke privacy notices and supplementary privacy statements may contain further information about how Shell is processing your personal data. In those instances, such privacy notices will be communicated to you separately. This Privacy Notice explains what personal data are processed about you, why we are processing your personal data and for which purposes, how long we hold your personal data for, how to access and update your personal data, as well as the options you have regarding your personal data and where to go for further information. If personal data of children is gathered this requires consent of the parent or guardian. Special Notice - if you are under 18 years old. Processing children’s personal data Except in those cases where Shell organizes educational events specifically designed for children, we do not intentionally collect personal data of individuals under 18 years old. If you are under 18 years old please do not send us your personal data for example, your name, address and email address. If you wish to contact Shell in a way which requires you to submit your personal data (such as for education or innovation events) please get your parent or guardian to do so on your behalf. The categories of personal data we collect about you. What personal data do we process about you? Collection of information We process personal data from and in relation to individuals who are, or who work for or on behalf of or who are shareholders in our Business Customers, Suppliers, Business Partners in the following categories: Private contact information (such as name, postal or e-mail address, and phone number) only if necessary; or Business contact and other information (such as job title, department, name of organization and your dealings with Shell on behalf of yourself or the relevant Business Customer, Supplier, Business Partner). Screening In addition, in order to comply with legal and regulatory obligations, to protect Shell’s assets and employees/contractors and specifically to ensure that Shell can comply with trade control, anti-money laundering and/or bribery and corruption laws and other regulatory requirements, we carry out screening (pre-contract and on a periodic basis post-contract) on owners, shareholders and directors of our Business Cutomers, Suppliers and Business Partners. This screening takes place against publicly available or government issued sanctions lists and media sources. The screening does not involve profiling or automated decision making in relation to the counter-parties or potential counter-parties. The purposes for which we process your personal data. Who is responsible for any personal data collected? Shell India Markets Private Limited, an Indian company with registered number U23201TN2004PTC053147, and registered office at 2nd Floor, Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia Business Park, 143, Dr MGR Road, Perungudi, Chennai - 600 096, India, will be responsible for processing your personal data, either solely or jointly with its affiliates within the Shell group of companies. For what purposes do we process your personal data? We process personal data covered by this Privacy Notice for the following purposes: Business execution - including providing, researching, developing and improving products or services; concluding and executing agreements with Business Customers, Suppliers and Business Partners; recording and settling services, products and materials to and from a Shell company; managing relationships and marketing such as maintaining and promoting contact with existing and prospective customers, account management, customer service, and development, execution and analysis of market surveys and marketing strategies; Organisation and management of the business - including financial management, asset management, mergers, demergers, acquisitions and divestitures, implementation of controls, management reporting, analysis, internal audits and investigations; Health, safety and security - including protection of an individual’s life or health, occupational health and safety, protection of Shell companies and staff, authentication of individual status and access rights; or Legal and/or regulatory compliance - including compliance with legal or regulatory requirements. We may also process your personal data for a secondary purpose where it is closely related, such as: storing, deleting or anonymising personal data; fraud prevention, audits, investigations, dispute resolution or insurance purposes, litigation and defence of claims; or statistical, historical or scientific research. Communication and marketing You may receive offers on behalf of the relevant Business Customer, Supplier or Business Partner. On all occasions you will be given the opportunity to use the unsubscribe functionality through the different digital channels we use to interact with you. We will only process your personal data where we have a lawful basis to do so. Why do we process your personal data? The personal data covered by this Privacy Notice are only processed: in order to take steps at the request of an individual prior to entering into a contract; where it is necessary to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation to which the relevant Shell company/companies is subject to; where it is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the relevant Shell company/companies, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual/s; or (only if legally required) with the explicit consent of the individual. In those cases where processing is based on consent, and subject to applicable local law which provides otherwise, you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time. This will not affect the validity of the processing prior to the withdrawal of consent. Shell is committed to safeguarding your personal data. Security of your personal data We have implemented technology and policies with the objective of protecting your privacy from unauthorised access and improper use. In particular, we may use encryption for some of our services, we apply authentication and verification process for access to Shell services and we regularly test, assess and evaluate the effectiveness of our security measures. Who do we share your personal data with? Who will we share your personal data with? The personal data covered by this Privacy Notice are exclusively processed for the purposes referred to above and will only be shared on a strict need to know basis with: Other companies within the Shell group of companies; Authorized third party agents, service providers, external auditors and/or subcontractors of Shell; or A competent public authority, government, regulatory or fiscal agency where it is necessary to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation to which the relevant Shell company/companies is subject to or as permitted by applicable local law. Interacting with Shell through social media If you choose to interact with Shell through social media on a Shell administered social media page (‘Shell Social Media Page’) such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter or LinkedIn, your personal data (such as your name, your profile picture and the fact that you are interested in Shell) will be visible to all visitors of your personal webpage depending on your privacy settings on the relevant social media platform, and will also be visible to Shell. You can delete any information that you share on these sites at any time through your relevant social media platform’s account. Shell does not track your activity across the different social media sites that you use. If you send a message to Shell via any messanger service on a social media platform, these messages are held for no longer than one month after receipt. Please contact Shell if you wish to make a request that you are unable to action yourself and which relates to a Shell Social Media Page - see the section below. Additionally and to the extent Shell is jointly responsible with a social media platform of a Shell Social Media Page, Shell will have access through the social media platform to aggregated data providing statistics and insights that help to understand the types of actions you take on Shell Social Media Pages. For more information on how your personal data are processed on those social media platforms, including any targeted advertising that you may receive, please refer to your privacy settings accessible through your relevant social media platform’s account. Your personal data may be transferred outside of your country, subject to appropriate safeguards. Transfers of your personal data to other countries Where your personal data have been transferred to companies within the Shell group and/or to authorized third parties located outside of your country we take organizational, contractual and legal measures to ensure that your personal data are exclusively processed for the purposes mentioned above and that adequate levels of protection have been implemented in order to safeguard your personal data. These measures include Binding Corporate Rules for transfers among the Shell group and for Shell companies in the EU, European Commission approved transfer mechanisms for transfers to third parties as well as any additional local legal requirements. You can find a copy of Shell Binding Corporate Rules at www.shell.in/privacy.html or by contacting privacy-office-SI@shell.com. What are the consequences of not providing your personal data? Personal data gathered by Shell for these processes either directly or indirectly are required in order to: Fulfil legal requirements and/or which is required for entering into a contract with a counter-party and continuing to contract with that counter-party; or Maintain contact with Business Customers, Suppliers and Business Partners. Failure to provide us with the information required will negatively affect our ability to communicate with you, or our ability to enter into a contract with a counter-party or continue to contract with a counter-party. Shell will only hold your personal data for a defined period of time. How long do we hold your personal data for? With some exceptions which are explained in supplementary privacy statements, any personal data that are required for the purposes of conclusion and execution of agreements with Business Customers, Suppliers and Business Partners or for considering bids or tenders, will be held during the duration of the contractual relationship and up to 15 years after. For agreements which have a term of more than five years and for the purposes set out above, these agreements will be held for 35 years with effect from the commencement of the agreement. In all other cases for the purposes set out above, including personal data gathered as part of any unsuccessful bids to Shell or which relates to the screening against publicly available or government issued sanctions lists and media sources, such personal data are held for no longer than 15 years after it was first gathered. In all cases information may be held for (a) a longer period of time where there is a legal or regulatory reason to do so (in which case it will be deleted once no longer required for the legal or regulatory purpose) or (b) a shorter period where the individual objects to the processing of their personal data and there is no longer a legitimate business purpose to retain it. Your rights and how to exercise them. Your rights in relation to your personal data We aim to keep our information as accurate as possible. You can request: access to your personal data; correction or deletion of the personal data (but only where they are no longer required for a legitimate business purpose); that you no longer receive marketing communications on behalf of the relevant Business Customer, Supplier or Business Partner; that the processing of your personal data is restricted; and/or that you receive personal data that you have provided to Shell, in a structured, digital form to be transmitted to another party, if this is technically feasible. To make any of these requests, please contact privacy-office-SI@shell.com. Who can you contact if you have a query, concern or complaint about your personal data? If you have any issues, queries or complaints regarding the processing of your personal data please contact Privacy-Office-SI@shell.com. You may also contact the Shell Group Chief Privacy Officer at Shell International B.V. The Hague, The Netherlands - Trade Register, No. 27155369 Correspondence: PO Box 162, 2501 AN, The Hague. If you are unsatisfied with the handling of your personal data by Shell, then you have the right to lodge a complaint to the Dutch Data Protection Authority whose address is Prins Clauslaan 60, 2595 AJ The Hague, The Netherlands. Please visit https://autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/en for more information. We use cookies on our websites to provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookies and similar technologies Shell may use cookies and similar technologies that aim to collect and store information when you visit a Shell website. This is to enable Shell to identify your internet browser and collect data on your use of our website, which pages you visit, the duration of your visits and identify these when you return so that we improve your experience when visiting our website(s). You can control and manage your cookies preferences by adjusting your browser settings or using the Shell cookies preference tool on Shell websites - for more information, please refer to the Shell Cookie Policy at http://www.shell.in/cookie-policy.html. This Privacy Notice is updated over time. Changes to this Privacy Notice This Privacy Notice may be changed over time. You are advised to regularly review this Privacy Notice for possible changes. This Privacy Notice was last updated in August 2019. Current or former Shell employee, contractor or dependentInformation for individuals who are or were employees, interns or individual contractors as well as dependents of Shell employees. This notice sets out what personal data we collect, for what purposes and your rights in this respect. What does this Privacy Notice cover? Every individual within the Shell group of companies (‘Shell’ or ‘we’) is responsible for protecting personal data about each other as well as that of our customers, business partners and suppliers. This Privacy Notice provides information about personal data processed by Shell in relation to individuals who are or were employees, interns or individual contractors as well as dependents of Shell employees (‘Shell Staff’). For individual retail customers, members of Shell loyalty programs, visitors of Shell websites or users of Shell applications, please refer to the Privacy Notice - Motorists at https://www.shell.in/privacy/b2c-notice.html. For individuals who apply to work for Shell, or who attend a recruitment event or undertake an assessment with Shell, please refer to the Privacy Notice - Shell Group Recruitment at https://www.shell.in/privacy/job-applicant-notice.html. As well as this Privacy Notice, bespoke privacy notices and supplementary privacy statements may contain further information about how we process your personal data in relation to specific HR processes (such as Open Resourcing, OneHealth IT and International Mobility programs). In those instances, such privacy notices will be communicated to you separately. This Privacy Notice explains what personal data are processed about you, why we are processing your personal data and for which purposes, how long we hold your personal data for, how to access and update your personal data, as well as the options you have regarding your personal data and where to go for further information. The categories of personal data we collect about you. What personal data do we process about you? Collection of information We process personal data necessary to manage the employment relationship, to engage contractors and interns and to provide benefits to certain dependents of Shell employees. This includes personal home contact information, date of birth, marital status, payroll and bank account information, wage and benefit information including beneficiary information, emergency contacts, work performance information, information required to ensure you have the right to work in the country/ies you are engaged in, as well as any other information necessary for managing the employment relationship, for engaging contractors and for providing benefits to certain dependents of Shell employees (such as those dependents who accompany a Shell employee while on an expatriate assignment). Sensitive personal data We also process some special categories of personal data (’sensitive personal data’) such as data relating to an individual’s health, their racial or ethnic origin, religious or philosophical beliefs, sexual orientation, political opinions and trade union membership. We will only process such personal data where it is necessary for the purposes of complying with employment and social security laws, for the establishment, exercise or defense of claims or where necessary for the purposes of providing occupational medical advice and support, to protect the vital interests of an individual (such as in an emergency), where necessary for reasons of public health or where the individual has provided their explicit consent. We will only process your personal data where we have a legal basis to do so. Why do we process your personal data? We process your personal data: in order to satisfy our obligations to comply with local laws and regulations; for legitimate business interests (for example performance management in order to ensure we have qualified and competent personnel or for health, safety and security purposes to ensure that only authorised personnel can access certain sites or assets, litigation and defense of claims); or where we have your explicit consent. Please note that as a general principle, Shell does not seek or rely on the consent of Shell Staff for processing personal data. However, there are limited circumstances when consent is required, such as if required by applicable local law. Personal data requested from Shell Staff are the minimum required in order to fulfil legal and/or contractual requirements and to provide opportunities to take part in programs or to provide a benefit. Failure to provide us with the information requested may negatively affect your ability to remain in employment, internship or engagement as a contractor or from participating in a program or receiving a benefit. In those cases where processing is based on consent, and subject to applicable local law which provides otherwise, you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time. This will not affect the validity of the processing prior to the withdrawal of consent. Withdrawal of consent may however impact your ability to remain employed or otherwise engaged or from participating in a program or receiving a benefit. The purposes for which we process your personal data. For what purposes do we process your personal data? We process personal data covered by this Privacy Notice for the following purposes: Human Resources, personnel management, business process execution, internal management, management reporting, organisational analysis and development - including budgetary, financial and organisational planning, administration, compensation, performance management; Health, safety and security - including protection of Shell Staff’s life or health, occupational health and safety, protection of Shell assets and authentication of Shell Staff status and access rights; or Legal and/or regulatory compliance - including compliance with legal or regulatory requirements. We may also process your personal data for a secondary purpose where it is closely related, such as: storing, deleting or anonymising your personal data; fraud prevention, audits, investigations, dispute resolution or insurance purposes, litigation and defence of claims; or statistical, historical or scientific research. Monitoring All activities on Shell IT equipment and/or when connected to the Shell IT network may be monitored for legitimate business purposes. All Shell Staff receive an access badge which allows Shell to record the date, time and access points made by individuals within Shell premises and assets. The data from the access and security systems are used: for health, safety and security purposes,to prevent fraud and specifically the protection of Shell assets, Shell Staff and visitors to Shell premises; to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, specifically where there is a local legal requirement to provide information to government/regulatory authorities; to monitor (on an aggregated basis) the number of individuals entering and working in a Shell premise for human resources and real estate planning; and in the case of contractors only (not Shell employees) the date and time of their entry and exit of Shell premises is used for the purposes of financial management and control. Most of our premises and assets are equipped with surveillance cameras (CCTV). Where surveillance cameras are used they will be identified. Surveillance cameras are used for health, safety and security specifically the protection of Shell assets, Shell staff and visitors to Shell premises. All images are routinely deleted unless there has been a health, safety or security incident, suspected or actual criminal activity, in which case they may be viewed by internal Shell investigation teams and externally if legally required or permitted by law enforcement or other government authority. Screening In order to comply with legal and regulatory obligations, to protect Shell’s assets and employees/contractors and specifically to ensure that Shell can comply with trade control, anti-money laundering and/or bribery and corruption laws and other regulatory requirements, we carry out screening on all employees and contractors on a periodic basis. This screening takes place against publicly available or government issued sanctions lists and is compared with information held about you by Shell (for example from the Conflict of Interest register - see here for more information). Any personal data collected through the screening will not involve profiling or automated decision making regarding suitability for continued employment, internship or engagement as a contractor. Who is responsible for any personal data collected? Shell India Markets Private Limited, an Indian company with registered number U23201TN2004PTC053147, and registered office at 2nd Floor, Campus 4A, RMZ Millenia Business Park, 143, Dr MGR Road, Perungudi, Chennai - 600 096, India, will be responsible for processing your personal data, either solely or jointly with its affiliates within the Shell group of companies. In the case of individual contractors, the company within the Shell group that has contracted your services solely or jointly with its affiliates within the Shell group of companies and your external contracting/employing company/agency. Who do we share your personal data with? Who will we share the personal data with? Your personal data are exclusively processed for the purposes referred to above and will only be shared on a strict need to know basis with: Other companies within the Shell group of companies, including to those which may be located outside of your location; Authorized third party agents, service providers, external auditors and/or subcontractors of Shell; and A competent public authority, government, regulatory or fiscal agency where it is necessary to comply with a legal or regulatory obligation to which the relevant Shell company/companies is subject to or as permitted by applicable law; or Any person to whom Shell proposes to transfer any of its rights and/or duties. Your personal data may be transferred outside of your country, subject to appropriate safeguards. Transfers of your personal data to other countries Where your personal data have been transferred to companies within the Shell group and/or to authorized third parties located outside of your country we take organizational, contractual and legal measures to ensure that your personal data are exclusively processed for the purposes mentioned above and that adequate levels of protection have been implemented in order to safeguard your personal data. These measures include Binding Corporate Rules for transfers among the Shell group and for Shell companies in the EU, European Commission approved transfer mechanisms for transfers to third parties as well as any additional local legal requirements. You can find a copy of Shell Binding Corporate Rules at www.shell.in/privacy.html or by contacting privacy-office-SI@shell.com. Shell is committed to safeguarding your personal data. Security of your personal data We have implemented technology and policies with the objective of protecting your privacy from unauthorised access and improper use and will update these measures as new technology becomes available, as appropriate. Shell only holds your personal data for a defined period of time. How long do we hold your personal data for? All information, including personal data, is managed in line with the Shell group standards for Information and Records Management and securely deleted once no longer required for a legitimate business purpose or for a legal/regulatory purpose. With some exceptions required to comply with local legal requirements: information contained within personnel files is held for no longer than 10 years once your employment has terminated; information relating to retirement benefits are held for no longer than 99 years from the commencement of employment; any personal data gathered as part of the screening against publicly available or government issued sanctions lists and media sources are held for no longer than 15 years after they were first gathered; the names, date, time and access points for all individuals entering Shell premises are held for 3 years from each access; where an individual has been dismissed or had their contract terminated due to serious misconduct, including breaching the Shell Life Saving Rules or breaching the Shell Code of Conduct, that information is held for up to 30 years post termination. In all cases information may be held for (a) a longer period of time where there is a legal or regulatory reason to do so (in which case it will be deleted once no longer required for the legal or regulatory purpose) or (b) a shorter period where you object to the processing of the personal data and there is no longer a legitimate business purpose to retain it. Your rights and how to exercise them. Your rights in relation to your personal data We aim to keep our information about you as accurate as possible. You can request: access to your personal data; correction or deletion of your personal data (but only where they are no longer required for a legitimate business purpose); that the processing of your personal data is restricted; and/or that you receive personal data that you have provided to Shell, in a structured, digital form to be transmitted to another party, if this is technically feasible. For those individuals who have access to HR Online you can access your personal data through: https://hronline.shell.com/. Alternatively, please contact your local HR adviser. If you are a contractor you should speak with your external contracting/employing company/agency. For former employees or dependents, please contact privacy-office-SI@shell.com. Who can you contact if you have a query, concern or compliant about your personal data? If you have any issues, queries or complaints regarding the processing of your personal data please refer to the relevant Shell privacy notice in your location or alternatively you can contact Privacy-Office-SI@shell.com. You may also contact the Shell Group Chief Privacy Officer at Shell International B.V. The Hague, The Netherlands - Trade Register, No. 27155369 Correspondence: PO Box 162, 2501 AN, The Hague. If you are unsatisfied with the handling of your personal data by Shell, then you have the right to lodge a complaint to the Dutch Data Protection Authority whose address is Prins Clauslaan 60, 2595 AJ The Hague, The Netherlands. Please visit https://autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/en for more information. This Privacy Notice is updated over time. Changes to this Privacy Notice This Privacy Notice may be changed over time. You are advised to regularly review this Privacy Notice for possible changes. This Privacy Notice was last updated in August 2019. Cookie policyIn this policy we use the term “cookies” to refer to cookies and other similar technologies covered by the EU Directive on privacy in electronic communications. What is a cookie? A cookie is a small piece of data that a website asks your browser to store on your computer or mobile device. The cookie allows the website to "remember" your actions or preferences over time. Most Internet browsers support cookies; however, users can set their browsers to decline certain types of cookies or specific cookies. Further, users can delete cookies at any time. Why do we use cookies? We use cookies to learn how you interact with our content and to improve your experience when visiting our website(s). For example, some cookies remember your language or preferences so that you do not have to repeatedly make these choices when you visit one of our websites. We also use cookies to help us with geolocation tracking in order to present you with the closest Shell station and office locations. Additionally, cookies allow us to serve you specific content, such as videos on our website(s). We may employ the learnings of your behavior on our website(s) to serve you with targeted advertisements on third-party website(s) in an effort to “re-market” our products and services to you. What types of cookies do we use? First-Party and Third-Party Cookies We use both first-party and third-party cookies on our website. First-party cookies are cookies issued from the shell.com domain that are generally used to identify language and location preferences or render basic site functionality. Third-party cookies belong to and are managed by other parties, such as Shell business partners or service providers. These cookies may be required to render certain forms, such as the submission of a job application, or to allow for some advertising outside of the Shell website. Session Cookies Session cookies are temporary cookies that are used to remember you during the course of your visit to the website, and they expire when you close the web browser. Persistent Cookies Persistent cookies are used to remember your preferences within the website and remain on your desktop or mobile device even after you close your browser or restart your computer. We use these cookies to analyse user behavior to establish visit patterns so that we can improve our website functionality for you and others who visit our website(s). These cookies also allow us to serve you with targeted advertising and measure the effectiveness of our site functionality and advertising. How are cookies used for advertising purposes? Cookies and ad technology such as web beacons, pixels, and anonymous ad network tags help us serve relevant ads to you more effectively. They also help us collect aggregated audit data, research, and performance reporting for advertisers. Pixels enable us to understand and improve the delivery of ads to you, and know when certain ads have been shown to you. Since your web browser may request advertisements and web beacons directly from ad network servers, these networks can view, edit, or set their own cookies, just as if you had requested a web page from their site. Although we do not use cookies to create a profile of your browsing behavior on third-party sites, we do use aggregate data from third parties to show you relevant, interest-based advertising. We do not provide any personal information that we collect to advertisers. You can opt out of off-site and third-party-informed advertising by adjusting your cookie settings. Opting out will not remove advertising from the pages you visit, but, instead, opting out will result in the ads you see not being matched to your interests. This implies that the ad(s) you see will not be matched to your interests by those specific cookies. How are third party cookies used? For some of the functions within our websites we use third party suppliers, for example, when you visit a page with videos embedded from or links to YouTube. These videos or links (and any other content from third party suppliers) may contain third party cookies, and we encourage you to consult the privacy policies of these third party vendors on their websites for information regarding their use of cookies. How do I reject and delete cookies? You can choose to reject or block all or specific types of cookies set by virtue of your visit to a Shell website by clicking on the cookie preferences on our website(s). You can change your preferences for Shell websites and/or the websites of any third party suppliers by changing your browser settings. Please note that most browsers automatically accept cookies. Therefore, if you do not wish cookies to be used, you may need to actively delete or block the cookies. If you reject the use of cookies, you will still be able to visit our websites but some of the functions may not work correctly. You may also visit www.allaboutcookies.org for details on how to delete or reject cookies and for further information on cookies generally. By using our website without deleting or rejecting some or all cookies, you agree that we can place those cookies that you have not deleted or rejected on your device. Cookie Description Opt-Out Link/More details regarding specific privacy policy Adobe Tracking Cookies We use Adobe Analytics to understand how users arrive on our website(s) and how they engage with us on the website. The data is used to improve the user experience. Adobe also uses this cookie to understand the content with which you have engaged on our website(s) so they may subsequently deliver some targeted advertisements to you. http://www.adobe.com/uk/privacy/opt-out.html Atlas Atlas tags allow us to measure the performance of our advertising across devices, browsers and publishers. https://atlassolutions.com/privacy-policy/ Bing The Bing Ads Universal Event Tracking tag helps us understand how our Bing campaigns perform by tracking actions on Shell websites once ads have been clicked. https://choice.microsoft.com/en-US/opt-out Crazy Egg We use the Crazy Egg service to help us improve the visitor experience and performance of our website. Crazy Egg provides graphical, video and text analysis of visitor behaviour on a website. It tracks where visitors click and allows us to fine-tune the layout and design of our web pages. https://www.crazyegg.com/privacy DoubleClick Floodlight DoubleClick Floodlight cookies enable us to understand if you complete certain actions on our website(s) after you have seen or clicked through one of our display/ video advertisements served on Google or other platforms via DoubleClick. DoubleClick uses this cookie to understand the content with which you have engaged on our website(s) so they may subsequently deliver some targeted advertisements to you. https://support.google.com/ds/answer/2839090?hl=en Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to understand how our media campaigns work and how you interact with our website in order to improve the user experience. https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout Google tracking cookies Google tracking cookies enable us to understand if you complete certain actions on our website(s) after you have seen or clicked through one of our adverts served via Google. Based on the content you have engaged with on our websites Google are able to deliver some targeted adverts across other Google partner websites. https://support.google.com/ads/answer/2662922?hl=en Facebook Facebook helps you stay in touch with your network through their website/ mobile application. We make it easier for you to share any content of interest on Facebook and sometimes, we may present with some targeted adverts on Facebook based on your engagement with our website(s). https://en-gb.facebook.com/help/568137493302217 LinkedIn The LinkedIn insight tag allows us to perform campaign reporting and unlock valuable insights about website visitors that may come via the campaigns we run on LinkedIn. https://www.linkedin.com/help/lms/answer/65521/the-linkedin-insight-tag-overview?lang=en Lucid Lucid cookies help us to measure brand lift and brand awareness from our advertising and marketing campaigns. https://luc.id/privacy-policy/ Magnetic Media Magnetic tags enable us to provide more in-depth information, including an audience analytics report that shows aggregated user search patterns before/after site visits and before/after seeing a Magnetic served ad. These reports often reveal certain underlying trends and affinities associated with the brand, and will help us optimize the campaign and give audience insights that can be applied across all marketing channels. http://www.magnetic.com/about/opt-out/ Outbrain Outbrain offers a content marketing service that aims to present users to content that they are interested in, based on their behaviour and preference. The pixel we've added helps with attribution and overall performance. http://www.outbrain.com/legal/privacy Pardot Pardot tracks visitor and prospect activities on your website and on Pardot landing pages by setting cookies on their browsers. These cookies are set in order to remember preferences (like form field values) when a visitor returns to your site. We also set a cookie for Pardot users that are logged into our app; this allows us to maintain the login session, remember table filters, and so on. http://help.pardot.com/customer/portal/articles/2125923-how-does-pardot-track-activities- Please refer to FAQ section The Trade Desk The Trade Desk is an online demand-side platform that provides buying tools for digital media buyers. The conversion pixel we add allows us to track performance and derive insights for media investments made. http://thetradedesk.com/general/privacy-policy#optout Tube Mogul Tube Mogul helps us deliver targeted video ads across desktops/ mobile devices and measure their relative performance across the real time inventory available across Tube Mogul partner websites. Tube Mogul is not to collect any Personally Identifiable Information from our website(s). http://www.tubemogul.com/compliance/privacy-policy/ Twitter Twitter provides real time updates from across the globe on the latest trending stories, ideas and opinions from the Twitter accounts or hashtags that you choose to follow. We make it easier for you to share our website content over Twitter. At times, we may present you with some ads on Twitter based on your engagement with our website(s). https://support.twitter.com/articles/20170410 VK This tag collects audience information from the VK Russian Social Network for later remarketing. Audience segmentation will allow for increased efficiency of advertising in VK and a decrease in ad spend for Shell. https://vk.com/ads?act=office_help&terms=1 Xaxis Xaxis helps us define audience segments based on your engagement with our website(s) and then, deliver targeted display/video/mobile ads to these anonymous segments. Xaxis does not collect personal data so they will only know your browser or device but never know your name/contact information. https://www.xaxis.com/static/view/privacy-policy Yahoo The Yahoo! Dot tag assists is in campaign tracking at attribution to help optimize performance. https://developer.yahoo.com/gemini/guide/dottags/managing-dot-tags/ Yandex This tag collects audience information for remarketing within the Yandex Advertising Network. Audience segmentation will allow for increased efficiency of advertising in Yandez and a decrease in ad spend for Shell. https://yandex.com/support/metrica/general/opt-out.xml YouTube We embed videos or insert links to videos from YouTube on our website(s). As a result, when you visit a page with content embedded from or linked to YouTube, you may be presented with cookies from YouTube. https://support.google.com/ads/answer/2662922?hl=en-GB Privacy notices Terms and conditions Accessibility promosSearch